Black has dominated the months of 2019 so far and there is no doubt we will be seeing more of it in 2020.Black is not a trend and definitely not a ‘colour of the year’ because it is the lack-of-colour of every year. No matter your style preferences, something we can all agree upon is the unwavering relevance of the colour black. It’s classic, simple, and can be totally versatile. Ini Edo rocks black Here are reasons you should wear black more. Classic Ever since Vogue called a little black Chanel dress “The Ford” of a woman’s wardrobe in 1926, black has been regaled as the definition of classic, the epitome of timeless and the rare aesthetic option immune to the voracious appetite of trend cycles, which have grown increasingly hungry in the digital age. Sey Shay in black Stylish Whether it’s your black blazer, ankle boots or pencil skirt, you are on the stylish side when it comes to wearing black head-to-toe. Minimalist Less is more and what better way to take off from your outfit by embracing simplicity in black? Davido wears black Trend-Forward We have stated earlier that black is not a trend because with black, you are ahead of the trend as you can hardly go wrong in black. Source By Reuben Abati ­ ­ ­ ­ I wrote a piece recen­tly, a tribute to the­ late veteran actress­ Bukky Ajayi and the ­multi-instrumentalist­ OJB Jezreel, in whic­h I raised a number o­f issues, including h­ow in Nollywood today­, there is an obsessi­on with the whitening­ of skin, an anti-Neg­ritude… July 29, 2016 In "Opinion" By Yashim Katurak Abuja - Dr Arikawe Adeolu, a medical practitioner, Federal Medical Centre, Jabi, Abuja, has advised the public to always observe the colour of their stool to determine their health status. Adeolu gave the advice in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in… August 22, 2018 In "Health" Trending recently is the nauseating video clips showing helpless black men in the cold/rainy streets of China having been dragged out of the hotel space they paid for and a house they have legitimately occupied for years. The clip showed pictures of men with their families in toe, looking confused… May 17, 2020 In "Opinion"