Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, on Tuesday, reacted to Peoples Democratic Party, PDP’s defeat in Bayelsa State. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had declared David Lyon of the All Progressives Congress (APC) winner of the Bayelsa State governorship election after polling 352,552 votes. Lyon defeated his closest rival, Duoye Diri of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who scored 143,172 votes. Reacting to PDP’s defeat, Wike said Rivers was the “next target of the enemies.” Wike spoke during a courtesy visit by Amayanabo of Wakrike Kingdom, Okrika and prominent chiefs of Okrika and was contained in a statement signed and sent to newsmen by his Media Aide, Simeon Nwakaudu. According to Wike: “Unfortunately, one of our states is gone to enemies. But God will help us. “For us who are from Rivers State, we should know that there will be an attack on us because the enemy has entered our territory. They will attack us, but with your prayer, Rivers State will prevail.” Wike also declared that his government belongs to all people of the state, stressing that his administration is not a government for any particular group in the state. The governor stated that the primary goal of his administration was to promote the interest of Rivers State. He said: “This Government is not a Government of you are from here or there. My Government is a Government of Rivers State. It is not a Government of a particular place. “Anything that will promote the interest of Rivers State is what I will do. You can be my sister state, if you want to take what belongs to Rivers State, I will not agree. I will not sell Rivers State for any cost. Let’s be our brother’s keeper.” Wike praised the Okrika people for the role they played during the last elections. “The role you played during the last elections, showed that when you give your support, you give your support. People should be known for something. “If you give your word, you give your word. In all my political career, I have seen that when Okrika people say they want to do something, they will do it. You are different and I commend you “, he said. Governor Wike warned people against bearing arms, saying that it negates the principle of peace. He said: “The only reason why people get arms is that the Nigerian Army is now part of elections.” Wike urged the monarch to use his position to promote peace and development in Okrika. He appealed to him to carry all interest groups along. He informed that the Rivers State Government will approach the State House of Assembly for the amendment of the name of the stool to read: “the Amanyanabo of Okrika ” as requested by the Traditional Ruler. In his remarks, the Amanyanabo of Wakrike Kingdom, Okrika, King Alfred Sementari Abam congratulated the Rivers State Governor on his re-election and the confirmation of his victory by the Supreme Court. He said that the re-election of Governor Wike was because of his outstanding performance and projects delivery. He, however, appealed to the Rivers State Governor to ensure that the name of the stool is changed from Amayanabo of Wakrike Kingdom, Okrika to Amanyanabo of Okrika. Culled from Daily Post