…Calls For Comprehensive
Forensic Audit Which Must Start With Akpabio By Chibuike
Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Federal lawmaker representing Akwa Ibom West senatorial district, , Senator Chris Ekpenyong has taken the Minister of Niger Delta, Dr Godswill Akpabio to the cleaners  and asked him to account for over four trillion naira (N4trn) that accrued to the state during his eight years reign as governor of the state. He made the call against the backdrop of the call by Akpabio for President Muhammadu Buhari to extend the planned forensic audit to Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). Recall that recently, the Federal Government said it will
conduct a forensic audit to resources put into the Niger Delta and the Minister
of Niger Delta is asking President Muhammadu Buhari to extend same to the Niger
Delta Development Commission (NDDC). Ekpeyong who described the call as a welcome development,
however said that for the audit to be comprehensive, it must start with
Godswill Akpabio. The former Deputy Governor of Akwa Ibom who made some serious
revelations in an interview with Sundiata Post Senate correspondent, said
419ers came into power after 2003 and took over power and looted public
treasury. They were able to come to power from wherever they got the money
using print and electronic media, advertised themselves and people thought they
were colossus and they came into power and looted the state dry. According to him, “Akpabio who is asking the president to
extend the forensic audit to NDDC is his hands clean? He who goes to Equity
should go with clean hands. I hope he is clean enough. I have refused to talk
but very soon I am going to explode because the same thing is going now in
NDDC. Putting up a 3-man committee will also be instituted in Akwa Ibom state
because he has to account for over N4trillion that he received for eight years
and you people danced around him and praised him for eight wasted years. Senator Ekpeyong said that Governor Attah built roads,
airport, provided power and more during his tenure but unfortunately for him,
as Governor Attah used to say, “he never had a successor. He said it was due to the non-performance of Godwill Akpabio
as governor compared to the resources at his disposal that made the Cordinating
Minister of Economy, Dr Ngozi Okonjo Iweala to come out to say “If Akwa Ibom
had put 10% of its resources into working for the state that the people of
AkwaIbom would have been better for it”. Adding that Akpabio never challenged
that statement till date. Watch out for the full explosive interview on Sundiata Post.