A young Nigerian man who feels disturbed at how busy most Pastors become that they ignore or don’t give much attention to their wife sexually and their family at large, took to social media to narrate how his friend is being spent heavily on by his pastor’s wife in exchange for a nice hot s*x, Nigerian Dubai Based Blogger Mayorspeaks The friend who is a member of a popular church in the highbrows of Ikeja, Lagos confided in the narrator of this story that he feels guilty doing what he does with the so-called pastor’s and intends to stop and change church… Read His story below: I guess nobody wants to talk about Pastors wives being the most Sex Starved women because of their husbands busy schedules. It’s okay if we also want to ignore the fact that most of them have rooms in different hotels where they sleep with young church musical instrumentalists. A friend who’s a pianist in a popular church in Ikeja just moved in to a 2 bedroom flat. All paid by his Pastor’s wife. Pastor is always going on spiritual trips and assignments. The poor woman whose sex life had been fallow for a long time had to explore. She picked my friend It started off as mere flings. She would invite him over to the house after church for lunch. Of course papa didn’t suspect a thing. It’s just mama G.O being caring to her children. This continued for about 5 month until she asked for his whatsapp number. He gave her na. She became a little informal with the guy. Asking him to call her by her name instead of ‘Mummy’. She started monitoring him and made sure no girl in the choir got too close to him. I don’t even want to talk about how she started sending him pictures of her next Sunday dresses. Whatsapp conversation moved from normal mummy G.O talks to asking him what he liked about her. Asking him if she should wear make up. Asking him if her dresses were too short. The last straw that broke the camel’s back was when she wanted him to meet her up in a hotel. He went. After a drink, She collected keys from the receptionist and went to the room with my friend. Obviously this isn’t her first time in the hotel. She seemed to be a regular. The preferential treatment gave her off. This means my friend wasn’t the first she’s having a fling with She locked the door behind her and immediately undressed. Told him to have sex with her. The young man said she should pay him before he would do anything. She transferred 63k to him. Her husband is a big pastor in Ikeja. So there’s money. They had a good time and left This continued. They have had more sex and more. Daddy G.O is busy traveling in and out of the country on missionary assignments. According to her when he’s around, he sleeps in a separate room praying and fasting. Last month the woman rented an apartment for my friend. She Goes there mostly on Mondays. She says on Mondays her husband barely notices her absence from the house because he’s usually exhausted from 5 Sunday services. She would go to the guy’s house and get good sex. This boy is living large. She’s spending lavishly on him. He said he has so far saved up 3.5 Million from what the woman has been giving him. He plans to leave the church & start up a business somewhere with the money. He says he regrets his actions. He hasn’t told her yet. To think nobody in the church has noticed This still amazes me So many things going on in Pastors families. I don’t want to apportion blames to anybody. These Pastors are too busy with spiritual things that they forget their primary duties as husbands and fathers. May God Help Them. 