Fast-rising Nollywood actor Perikles Mandinga was born in Guinea-Bissau and has been in the entertainment industry for many years. He attended college in Lisbon, Portugal before moving to the USA. He started as a fashion model, and has featured on runways, magazines, billboards and television. Mandinga won “Rip the Runway”, a P Diddy produced reality show aired on BET Network. He has extensive film and theatre credits both within the US and internationally. His theatre credits include Tower of Babel, Insanity and Properly Plucked. He has also featured in popular Nollywood movies including Omoge, Adaora, Kiss and Tell including some others. In an interview, Madinga revealed his plans to gain strong network in the Nollywood industry and make a name for himself. He also talked about his crazy fantasy and how he would like to date one of Nigeria’s most controversial actress, Tonto Dikeh. Who is Perikles Mandinga? I am a simple person who lived in two different countries (Portugal & USA) from an early age. I like to travel, and I still play sports. I like meeting new people. What actually informed your decision to go full-time into acting? And how far do you think you can go? From an early age, I knew acting was something that I love to do but coming from a traditional African family, I knew it was going to be a hard task because my dad wouldn’t accept the idea. He was very hard on me and my siblings. After finishing my studies in Lisbon, I had the opportunity to come to the USA to model. I knew that acting was going to be my full-time devotion, not modelling because it was my life’s purpose. What are those unique skills you are bringing to play that may possibly stand you out or better still that may give you recognition among all the big stars we have in industry? Starting out in a poor African country moving to a European capital and then in NYC I have seen things that maybe the other big stars have not experienced. What kind of roles do you prefer? I like to play characters that can be genuinely kind, nice guys or bad guy roles- those make me work harder at their motivation. I like characters that have flaws that can be exploited. Because I have a good sense of humour, I can build characters that have two sides to their personality. Where do you see yourself 5 years from now? What are your personal goals? In 5 years from now I see myself doing amazing work with actors that inspired me to get into this business. Which are the films you have acted in? Kiss and Tell, Omoge, Adaora, Yes I Do. All of these are Nollywood produced. By all standards, what comparison can you do between Hollywood and Nollywood- which is more relevant to Africans? Well from my perspective, I see Hollywood as something that has been there for so long, and now there’s a new kid on the block- Nollywood. It is fresh, with new ideas and it’s growing so fast that nothing will be standing in its way. It has a natural and large market eager for new films that it can relate to. In your opinion, what do you think should be done in terms of sourcing for fund and maintaining world-class movie productions? In time, as Nollywood grows, it will be able to finance its growth, similar in history to Hollywood. An important thing is to ensure that new, young and upcoming individuals shouldn’t be shut out from participating. These days, what have you been up to or which project(s) have you been embarking on? So many things are happening all at the same time, so my hands are full with projects from movies, theatre and other ventures. It is very exciting. You are quite handsome, you probably would be getting admiration and glances from the female folks. How well do you relate with them? Thank you for the compliment. I have a big sister who always kept me in line. She and mom taught me to respect everyone. As a result, I have been fortunate to have many female friends who I trust and have deep friendships with. Currently in the movie industry, who is your female crush? That should be Tonto Dikeh. I like her so much and she has a very unique personality. Crazy though but I wouldn’t mind going into a serious relationship with her. After all, I can last more than 40 seconds. What has fame robbed you of and what doors has it opened for you? You think I have fame? So far nothing has changed me and likely never will. I am no different than anyone else. I am the same person who gets up each morning to see what the day will offer. Describe a typical day? My typical day contains jogging, working out or yoga meditation. I have theatre work with my coach and go on many auditions. I like going for walks and playing sports. Nothing makes me happier than reading books. I especially like autobiographies lately. Name one luxury product you wouldn’t mind breaking the bank for? I can’t break the bank for what I want because it doesn’t exist yet. I would do everything to help my sister from dying from cancer. Where is home at the moment? Home is the place where you’re loved and feel comfortable. Right now I live between Lagos, Lisbon and NYC. Who is your role model and why? My Dad is my role model and he will always be. He was a doctor and taught me about ethics, morals and love and helping others. Aside acting, what other things do you have passion for? I have a strong love of our African continent. I believe in helping my brothers to achieve their full potential. Sometimes I think that is my calling. I am curious about different aspects of business around the world. Any message for your fans out there? Thank you!! Please keep us going by seeing our movies. You inspire us to keep going with new movies, new stories. We started from almost nothing and your attendance at our films answered our prayers. Thank you Source