By Awayi KujeWakama (Nasarawa State) – The District Head of Wakama in Nasarawa State, Mr Adams-Makka Nangba, has commanded President Muhammadu Buhari for the construction of 13km OLA/Akpata road in Akun Development Area of the state. The traditional ruler said the project would boost the socioeconomic activities of the people of the area and the state at large. Nangba made the commendation on Tuesday during a meeting with village heads of the area in his palace at Wakama. He said that the construction of the road would not would also boost transport system as well as the standard of living of the people of the area and its environs. “We are grateful to President Muhammadu Buhari for the construction of OLA/Akpata road as the construction of the road will also ease the problem facing my people and other neighbouring communities plying the road. “We are also grateful to Gov. Abdullahi Sule, Sen. Godiya Akwashiki and other national and state assembly members as well as other stakeholders for influencing the construction of the road. “As we are all aware that along this road, we have Our Lady of Apostles (OLA) Girls College, OLA Hospital and the Secretariat of our development area, among others. “We are grateful to the President as we will continue to support his administration’s policies and programmes to succeed,” he said. Nangba said that the meeting was aimed at discussing issues in order to take the chiefdom and the area to the greater height. He assured the state government of his people’s readiness eadiness to donate land for developmental purposes in the area. “We are ready to donate land to government whenever the need arises in the interest of development,” he added. He urged the village heads to continue to initiate programmes aimed at promoting peace in their domains considering the importance of peace to societal development. Besides, he urged his subjects and other Nigerians to support the present administration at all levels to enable the leaders to succeed in the task ahead of them. The district head further enjoined Nigerians to live in peace, respect constituted authorities and be their brothers keepers for the overall development of the country. (NAN)