Being a celebrity is no doubt a topsy-turvy ride seeing as stars face up and down moments at the hands of fans. Many times, they are subjected to intense trolling and it can lead to depression. Nollywood actor, Adeniyi Johnson, recently shared his opinion about trolls in a lengthy note on his social media page. According to him, they always have an opinion on what a celeb should wear, eat and how to live their lives. Johnson explained that celebs are also humans with feelings and people should not blame him when he responds to hateful comments on his page. The actor also spoke on how these trolls insult him with his crashed marriage to actress, Toyin Abraham. Johnson explained that he and his ex-wife are doing fine and building their separate homes. Read excerpts from his post below: “The only abuse wey una fit abuse me na my last marriage .. and guess what both parties are doing great moreso building our homes again… but you are there licking our wounds and living in our past.. crying while we laugh hating when we are loving.. my dear we moved on already biko move…” The actor added that anyone who takes pleasure in sending negative comments will never know peace. Read his post below: Quite a number of people knows how celebrities should lIve their lives, what to wear, where to go, what to eat, cars to drive, areas they should stay and even how to sleep.. but their lives are in total disarray… often times you read comments like "must you reply" My dear I must… CELEBRITIES ARE HUMAN TOO…✌ lots of stupid comments has sent many celeb into depression, it has caused alot of damages most fights escalates because of your comment and homes broken due to hate speech from you and many ran into debt… we go through alot to put smiles on faces and home but what we get back from some people are hatred and abuses for no reason.. I've been abused privately and publicly for not doing GIVEAWAY..my dear I GIVE TO PEOPLE ANYWAY AND NOT AGAINST ANYONE WHO DOES .. some say I don't wear designer my dear wetin I dey wear na rag? Anyway that is changing since I have @shaiworldluxury 🤣. if my post doesn't interest why not scroll to the next post. The only abuse wey una fit abuse me na my last marriage .. and guess what both parties are doing great moreso building our homes again… but you are there licking our wounds and living in our past.. crying while we laugh hating when we are loving.. my dear we moved on already biko move…Tell me has your entire journey in life been smooth or as planned? come to think of it when u pick your phone to type hate speech how do you feel? Mark my words for everyone who takes pleasure in abusing and sending negative comments your generation even generation unborn will never know peace or do good in life ….. IF YOU LOVE ME I LOVE YOU TOO… #ispeakforme ..PEACE✌ A post shared by  Adeniyi Johnson (@adeniyijohnson) on Nov 28, 2019 at 5:37am PST Source