Abuja (Sundiata Post)- BARELY 24 hours after Governor Henry Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State failed to empower his preferred candidate as successor, his counterpart in Anambra State Chief Willie Obiano, has adopted an ingenious scheme to ensure that he does not suffer a similar fate. Governor Obiano recently put together a 46-man team, which he styled as Anambra 50-Year Development Committee, comprising the former Central Bank Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Prof. Solo Chukwulobelu, the state Attorney General and former Director of Budget Office, Mr. Ben Akabueze among others. Although the terms of reference of the yet-to-be inaugurated committee include outlining the critical developmental strategies needed to ensure the socio-economic progression of the state without dependence on oil revenue, sources within the committee said the challenge is how to hide the real motive of setting up the panel. One of the men listed on the 46-man committee speaking in a condition of annonimity revealed that some of the people named on the committee were not consulted before adding them, regretting that it has become obvious that the governor wants to impose the former CBN governor on Anambra people as governor. He said: “It does not make sense that such a bloated committee should be set up two years to the end of the governor’s second term. If indeed the governor wants to raise a developmental, he should first tell Ndi Anambra how far he has implemented the ANIDS (Anambra Integrated Development Strategies), including all the laudable economic development plans he enunciated in his first year that have all been abandoned. “Why should Soludo be made to chair the committee when he is saddled with similar assignments by the Southeast Governors and the recent appointment by President Muhammadu Buhari as member of the Economic Advisory Committee? No matter how he tries to hide it, the fact remains that Obiano wants to be political godfather by making Soludo governor.” The state commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. C. Dons Adinuba, could not be reached for reactions, but a senior staff of the ministry dismissed the insinuations that the committee was to double as a governorship campaign committee. Other members of the committee are as follows: Primus Odili(Executive), Prof Kate Omenugha(Executive);  Mr Ifeatu Onejeme, ( Executive); Mr. Mark Okoye, (Executive); Patrick Okigbo III (Technocrat);  Chris Okoye, (Technocrat); Captain Iheanacho Ebubeogu,(Technocrat); Capt John T. Okakpu, (Technocrat); DIG Val Ntomchukwu retd, (Security Expert); AIG Okey Ezike retd, (Security Expert); Mr. Valentine Ozigbo (Transcorp, Hospitality Expert); Mr. Maduka Emelife, (External Ndi Anambra); Henry Manafa, (External Ndi Anambra); Hon. Chudi Offodile, (Political Class); Dr. Ikem Odumodu (Technocrat). Others are: Joe Anatune (Technocrat); Dr Ndi Onuekwusi (Rep of Anambra – Professionals); Prof Idemobi; Nneka Ekwuozor; Professor Uche Amazigo; Bryan Mezue; Dr. Uzochukwu Amakom; Engineer Emeka Ezeh (former DG, BPP); David Onyinyechi Agu; Dr. Olisa Agbakoba, SAN; (Technocrat); Mr Mac Atasie, (Secretary); Amb Emma Obi Okafor (fmr Deputy DG, NIA); Dr. Emma Onyilofor, Amb Chudi Okafor; Dr. Oscar Onwudiwe: (President of Aka Ikenga) and C- Don Adinuba, (Executive). It is not known yet when the proxy campaign committee would be inaugurated, but it was gathered that the governor is billed to meet with captains of industry next Monday as part of his planned wide consultations to moderate his determination to ‘finish strong.”