By Tukur Muntari Kano – The Kano Electricity Distribution Company (KEDCO) says it has begun deployment and installation of pre-paid meters in Katsina, Kano and Jigawa States under the Meter Asset Providers (MAP) scheme, as part of efforts to end estimated billing. This was contained in a statement by KEDCO’s Head of Corporate Communication, Ibrahim Sani-Shawai, issued to newsmen in Kano on Thursday. “One of the vendors is Momas Nigeria Ltd which is to take care of Katsina Central and Kano West and already deployment and installations have begun in the concerned areas in Katsina Central and Kano West. “The LGAs in Kano West include, Kumbotso, parts of Gwale, Gwarzo, Karaye, Bebeji, Kiru, Kura, G/Malam, T/Wada, Doguwa, R/gado, D/Tofa, Tofa, Madobi, D/kudu, Rano, Bunkure, Bichi, Kunchi, Tsanyawa, Bagwai, Shanono, Dambatta and Makoda. “While in Katsina State, the LGAs include, Kankia, Kusada, Ingawa, Bindawa, Charanchi, Kurfi, Matazu, Musawa, Dutsinma, Safana and Danmusa. And in Jigawa, we have Kazaure, Roni, Yankwashi and Gwiwa,” he said. He said interested persons from the local government areas in Kano State should contact KEDCO Customer Service Points (CSP) or the Regional Office along Zaria road for more information on how to secure and instal the meter Sani-Shawai added that those in Katsina and Jigawa axis should also go to the nearest CSP or regional offices in their area for more information about the MAP scheme. “This is an attempt targeted at terminating issues on estimated billing, hence KEDCO seek the cooperation of everyone living in the affected areas for speedy and timely deployment and installations as the meter is being sold at affordable prices in line with Nigeria Electricity Regulatory Commission’s stipulations.” He said four vendors that will take care of other areas are in the process of securing necessary bank guarantees to commence the installation. “This is to also inform other areas within KEDCO franchise to get ready as the vendors will soon flood their areas with the pre-paid meters too,” he said. (NAN)