By Tukur Muntari Kano – Kano Concerned Citizens Initiative (KCCI), has called on the Federal Government to weigh the advantages and disadvantages of closing the country’s land borders with a view to reviewing the policy. The Chairman of the KCCI, Alhaji Bashir Tofa, made the call while addressing a news conference in Kano on Tuesday. Tofa said the call had become imperative seeing that the border closure would not solve the entire problems bedeviling the country and hindering its economic growth and development. “There is need for the Federal Government to examine the advantages and disadvantages of border closure in view of the fact that the policy has negatively affected many businesses,” he said. Tofa, who was the Presidential candidate of the defunct National Republican Convention (NRC), said the policy should be reviewed in order to ensure that those conducting their legal businesses were allowed to do so. He advised the Federal Government to set up a committee that would meet with the governments of neighbouring countries, to ensure strict adherence to all the rules and regulations governing movements of people and goods. “The Federal Government should also take stringent measures to ensure that our borders are fully protected and secured. He disclosed that the KCCI had planned to establish a comprehensive business Centre in Kano that would offer consultancy and other services to businessmen and women, as well as other interested people across the north. He said the centre, when established, would afford business people the opportunity to be informed about other businesses with a view to promoting theirs. “In the last few weeks, a delegation of the KCCI had gone round 30 Industries and farms within Kano Kano Central, on an assessment tour. “We decided to make these strenuous visits because of our state and people’s deteriorating economic situation,” he said. Tofa said based on its findings, the delegation was giving its opinion and solutions it felt would solve the problems. He said the group would soon forward a report to the Kano State Government, the presidency, northern state governors, as well as institutions concerned for necessary action. (NAN)