By Christian Ogbonna Yenagoa – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has trained visually impaired persons on the use of new technology called `Braille Ballot Guide’. The training was aimed to aid them in casting their votes in the Nov. 16 governorship election in Bayelsa. The state’s Resident Electoral Commissioner of INEC, Mr Monday Udoh, stated this while declaring the training open in Yenagoa on Monday. He explained that the initiative to introduce the device was to make people living with disabilities to be part of the election. Udo, however, urged the over 100 visually impaired persons who attended the training to endeavour to go out on the election day and exercise their franchise. “This initiative is to make sure that those with disabilities are part of the Nigerian election. “We, the Bayelsa INEC, thank the development partners that collaborated with us to ensure that persons with disabilities now have a voice to be heard. “We are grateful to those who have been able to bring the initiative for people to use the Braille Message Guide. “We have arranged that in every polling unit a physical challenged person attends he/she must be given first chance to vote, he/she must be given a different line to queue; that is to show our passion to make them to be part of the election,’’ he said. The Deputy Director, Civil Society Organisations Division, INEC headquarters, Mrs Lakunuya Dorothy, said the sensitisation would help the visually impaired persons who are not versed in the Braille to learn how to use it. He said the training become necessary because for persons with vision impairments voting could be particularly difficult “and the potential for error is high as ballots are not produced with disability in mind”. She said that the commission was moved by obligation not to discriminate on the basis of disability. The Chairman, Joint National Association of People living with Disabilities, Bayelsa state chapter, Mr Ikilowei Eric, commended INEC for giving the physically challenged persons a sense of belonging through the training.(NAN)