UK – Most brides naturally want the attention to remain on them for the entirety for their big day, but one unselfish sister was happy to share the spotlight to help her brother propose. Sierra Mcginty-Rush, from Navasota, Texas spent months planning the moment with her brother Solomon McGinty II, which was captured on camera by their cousin De’Von Jones. Footage shows how the bride turned and presented her flowers to her brother’s girlfriend, Baylee Gillmore, rather than following the tradition of throwing her bouquet. He was waiting on one knee to pop the question, much to the delight of guests. In the video, that was shared online, the newlywed was seen preparing to toss her bouquet towards her single friends. But at the last minute, the bride turned around and walked to the group of women behind her. She then handed her bouquet to a Baylee, who was wearing a shiny dress, who seemed confused and surprised. The woman looked around and spotted her boyfriend, waiting behind her on one knee, as the crowd went wild. The woman could not believe her eyes as her boyfriend took her hand and made his proposal, his voice drowned out by the scream and cheers of the wedding party. Baylee nodded and offered her left hand as the guests swooned. After embracing and sharing a sweet kiss, the couple were left beaming from ear to ear. The woman’s friends could been seen rushing to her side to congratulate her, as the crowd dispersed to let them through. The giddy groom-to-be could be seen raising his thumb up in the air in sign of success.  Jones revealed the proposal was the bride’s idea. Her brother was initially hesitant to go ahead with the move.    He felt it might be disrespectful to her to steal her thunder, but his sister insisted he did it and offered her help. She reportedly planned it for months on end before the wedding. In a Facebook post, Sierra wrote: ‘Doing it at MY reception that MY coins paid for was MY idea. ‘If you know me and my brothers relationship then you would understand why I was more excited then they were! I was nervous and trying not to cry,’ she added. ‘Sharing Saturday with him just gave us more memories,’ she said. ‘If you know me and my brothers relationship then you would understand why I was more excited then they were! I was nervous and trying not to cry,’ she added. ‘Sharing Saturday with him just gave us more memories,’ she said. Source