….Seeks Support Of ICAN In Ensuring Accountability and Transparency on Agencies Tasked with Revenue Generation, Collection And Remittance By Chibuike
Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata
Post) – President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, on Tuesday, assured Nigerians
that both chambers of the National Assembly might pass the 2020 Budget next
week Wednesday. This is also
coming as has called for the partnership of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) with the National Assembly in ensuring
accountability and transparency on the part of agencies tasked with revenue
generation, collection and remittance. He made the
disclosure when a delegation from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of
Nigeria (ICAN) paid a courtesy visit to his office at the National Assembly,
Abuja. The President of
the Senate told his guests that Committees on Appropriation of both chambers of
the National Assembly sought a one-week extension to enable them to conclude
work on the report of the 2020 Appropriations Bill to be laid next Tuesday. Lawan said: “We want to pass the budget 2020 before the end of the year. Actually, today would have been the day for laying the budget, but our committees on appropriations sought for an extension by one week only. ”By Tuesday next
week, we expect the budget 2020 to be laid before the two chambers of the National
Assembly. It is our desire to pass the budget the following day, Wednesday. “So we are
thinking the budget would be laid on the 3rd of December, and by 4th December
(on Wednesday), the Senate and the House of Representatives should be able to
pass the 2020 Budget.” Lawan, in his
welcome address, sought the partnership of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) with the National Assembly in ensuring
accountability and transparency on the part of agencies tasked with revenue
generation, collection and remittance. “We need your
support in the National Assembly. We have particularly three committees that
require the kind of support that you will give. “First, we have the Committee on Finance. As a
committee, we need the support of ICAN. Only recently, the committee organised
the public hearing on Finance Bill. “I want to thank
you for participating fully. We appreciate your support and commitment in that
aspect. “Going forward,
there are so many challenges that will come up in the implementation of the
laws. “One area we
have a challenge today is the area of revenue generation, collection and
remittance. ”Until we are
able to generate sufficient revenues, most of our hopes and aspiration will
continue to give us a lot of challenges in realising them Lawan said. “So we need a
situation where we will continue to engage the revenue agencies. We want to see
transparency in all that they do. “We want to
ensure that where there are challenges in terms of legislation, that we provide
the intervention they require to be efficient and effective Lawan said. “One thing we
are determined to ensure is that whatever is generated is remitted to the
federation account as provided in the constitution. So Accountants will be very
fundamental in what we are going to do.” Earlier in his
speech, the President of ICAN and leader of the delegation, Mazi Nnamdi
Okwuadigbo, urged the Senate to continue to facilitate the passage of bills
that would promote professionalism, social, economic and human capital
development. Okwuadigbo added
that the renewed interest of the National Assembly at improving the budget
process would attract positive results on the provision of infrastructure and
growth of the Nigerian economy. “We have the
confidence that this would be sustained to forestall previous occurrences where
budgets were approved late, thus, leading to poor or non- implementation of
major projects that should facilitate the much-desired inclusive growth and
development in the country,” he said. He also tasked
the National Assembly and other stakeholders to commit to the timely approval
of the National budget so as to enable timely commencement of the
implementation of the budget from the beginning of January of every year.