13-year-old boy has lost both of his hands after they were burnt by his stepmother. It was gathered that the woman attacked the young boy after accusing him of sleeping with her in her dream. The 13-year-old boy, Ovey Friday was taken to a native doctor by his stepmother where his hands were burnt after coals of fire were heaped on his tied hands because he was accused of being a wizard. His stepmother claims he slept with her in the dream and she needed him to confess and to also get rid of the spirit that possessed him. She said she took him to her native doctor in Wulko Community, Nasarawa Eggon Local Government Area, Nasarawa State where hot coals were placed on his tied hands and this led to a permanent deformity of his right hand while the left hand was amputated at an Abuja hospital yesterday November 14th. Spokesperson of the Nasarawa state Ministry of Youths, Eche Amos, took to his Facebook page to share the sad news. He disclosed that the suspects have been arrested by the Police and will soon be charged to court for ”culpable homicide.” He wrote; “To the glory of God, 13-year-old Ovey Friday, a victim of domestic violence from Wulko Community, Nasarawa Eggon Local Government Area, Nasarawa State, had a successful operation at Cedar Crest Hospitals, Abuja(all expenses paid). His left hand was amputated below the elbow to save his life. Ovey, whose biological mother is now late, was accused of witchcraft by his step-mother who alleged that the teenager was making love to her in her dreams, an allegation the young boy repeatedly denied. He was then taken for exorcism where, with the collusion of a native doctor, Ovey’s hands were tied together and coals of fire poured on them to force him to confess to the allegation, yet, he claimed his innocence. The effect of the burns led to Ovey’s (left) hand’s amputation and permanent deformity on the other(right) as it had degenerated into gangrene. While Ovey’s father, Friday Dio, an okada rider based in Lagos is yet to surface since this incident happened, all the suspects involved in this abominable act have been arrested by the Police and will soon be charged to court for culpable homicide. Efforts are underway to fix a prosthetic hand for him.” Source