A young man who was in coma for 7days has reportedly been resurrected by Bishop Sam Zuga of House of Joy ministry in Adamawa. It was gathered that the young man was brought in from the crowd half dead, when Bishop Sam Zuga was ministering God’s words to the good people of Adamawa state, the man of God collected water from the crowd and sprinkled on him and immediately the youngman jumped up and started waving to God in praises. @cnbnewsng Speaking to Bishop Sam Zuga how it was possible for him to deliver the half dead young man with ordinary water, no prayers, he said and Quoted the Bible: “in the Book of Luke 5:17 says, Now it happened on a certain day, as He was teaching, that there were Pharisees and teachers of the law sitting by, who had come out of every town of Galilee, Judea, and Jerusalem. And the power of the Lord was present to heal them. Where their is teaching of God’s words, his power is always available for deliverance, and with that I was able to deliver him with the water I got from the crowd. He added that: While I was building my relationship with God years back, i have always prayed and wanted to be like Arcbishop Benson Idahosa of blessed memory who has always taken the step of delivering the people through the teaching of God’s words, most times after preaching, he just get water from the crowd and sprinkle it on people, for those who believe are healed immediately I watch his steps and put them into practice and to the Glory of God, it has been working for me. See video below: . . The city of Adamawa was filled with so much excitement as a young man who was half dead, and in coma for 7days was restored back to live. . . The Youngman who is said to be from Adamawa state, was restored and received deliverance during a free medical treatment program in Yola, organised by Bishop Sam Zuga of House of Joy ministry. . . The young man was brougt in from the crowd half dead, when Bishop Sam Zuga was ministering God's words to the good people of Adamawa state, the man of God collected water from the crowd and sprinkled on him and immediately the youngman jumped up and started waving to God in praises. . . @cnbnewsng Speaking to Bishop Sam Zuga how it was possible for him to deliver the half dead young man with ordinary water, no prayers, he said and Quoted the Bible: . . "in the Book of Luke 5:17 says, Now it happened on a certain day, as He was teaching, that there were Pharisees and teachers of the law sitting by, who had come out of every town of Galilee, Judea, and Jerusalem. And the power of the Lord was present to heal them. . . Where their is teaching of God's words, his power is always available for deliverance, and with that I was able to deliver him with the water I got from the crowd. . . He added that: While I was building my relationship with God years back, i have always prayed and wanted to be like Arcbishop Benson Idahosa of blessed memory who has always taken the step of delivering the people through the teaching of God's words, most times after preaching, he just get water from the crowd and sprinkle it on people, for those who believe are healed immediately I watch his steps and put them into practice and to the Glory of God, it has been working for me. A post shared by  Instablog9ja (@instablog9ja) on Nov 5, 2019 at 3:27am PST Source