Nigerians have disagreed with the management of Babcock University, Ogun State which expelled the female who was seen in the leaked sex video that went viral Wednesday. The institution said in a statement on Wednesday night by its director of communication and marketing, Joshua Suleiman, that the video was taped in April 2019 when the male student, who had earlier been expelled in February for drug addiction, was undergoing rehabilitation at a health facility. The statement said that the female in the video was a 300 level student of accounting at the time the video was taped but had been expelled since the video leaked in April. “The place where the immoral act took place, according to her written statement, was at St Bridget Hospital, Abeokuta, Ogun State, where the boy has been undergoing rehabilitation for different destructive addictions. According to the girl, the incident took place in April this year during school vacation when she visited the boy at the hospital. The act did not take place at Babcock University,” the varsity said. Nigerians on Twitter say the institution should not have expelled the girl for consensual sex done outside the university’s campus. My own take on this #miakhalifa issue. Babcock university have no right to expel this girl, since d incident didn't take place within d school premises. She have d right to have sex. This kind of unnecessary expulsions in Nigerian private universities should be stopped. #babcok pic.twitter.com/zKwhHf15gH babcock’s just tryna catch a case #babcok pic.twitter.com/x3Z5zUv0O4 #babcok only has the right to expel the girl if everybody in school is tested to be a virgin Order than that, they should be suing the guy for defaming the image of the girl and the school pic.twitter.com/a77EgCTxvs Who brought in her university into the trend video? Who leaked the video & for what fucking reason? Who are the people that made it trend on twitter?These & more are the questions they should have asked. I smell propaganda in all of this saga. Expel is wrong #babcok pic.twitter.com/OCQKVK6igf I can barely see any part of their body exposed. And why did #babcok expel the lady?If Jesus had joined those people stoning the adulterous woman in the bible, how'd we have known that no one is a saint.Let the VC come out if he is without a sin and if he is the most righteous #babcokThis is Bullshit Nigerian behaving like Nigeria 🇳🇬🤔🤔🤔#justice pic.twitter.com/0KqHVgtk9Z Hearing/seeing d moral contributions to the #babcok #QUEENSCOLLEGE issues, u wud think u were in heaven listening to angels talk. Rotten hypocrites, quick 2 condemn, concerned abt d grain in other people's eyes while growing a forest in theirs. He without sin cast d first stone. The event took place outside the school during vacation. This outrightly means she was expelled for having sex as a babcock student? And they have the guts to say in their last statement that they are contributing to the greatness of the nation 🤦‍♂️ #babcok #babcock #miakalifq pic.twitter.com/ZxDtvq57Fq I'm not in support of public display of indecent act, however, #babcock University shouldn't have expelled the girl because the act wasn't done within the school premises. She has the right to live her private life the way she wants. #babcok #babcook My best post about the #babcok sex tape pic.twitter.com/MgolOc394r