10: 40 am Accreditation and voting going on smoothly at Gbeleko Unit 005, Egbeda Ward, Kabba/Bunu, Kogi West. 10: 30 am Hoodlums attack Dino Melaye’s polling unit Thugs have just attacked the polling unit where Dino Melaye voted. The hoodlums broke one of the ballot boxes and carted away the other, shooting into the air. 10: 20 am Fake policeman arrested in Kogi A fake police officer has been arrested by men of the Nigeria Police Force at the Igala Unity Square area in Anyigba, Dekina local government area of Kogi State.The fake policemen, dressed in black T-shirt and black trousers with a black jacket with SARS inscribed on it was accosted by a team of actual Special Anti Robbery Squad officers who were on patrol in the area. When accosted and upon inquiry, it was realised he was not a policeman as he claimed to be and was immediately arrested and taken away in the bus. 10:10 am Kogi: Dino Melaye prepares to vote Dino Melaye being accredited to cast his vote at The Apostolic Church polling unit, at Ayetoro Gbede, Ijumu LGA 10:00 am Kogi polls: Large turnout of voters witnessed at Ward 01, Yagba West A large turnout of voters is being witnessed at Ward 01, Polling Unit 003, Rest House One, Agbada, Yagba West, as the citizens trooped out to exercise their franchise in the governorship election in Kogi. Accreditation of the voters has already begun at the ward and other polling centres in the township, and the process is going on smoothly. A voter, Bayo Ajayi, described the exercise as “very peaceful at the moment, as there is no distraction from any where”.  9:45 am Diri is taking his time to come out, vote The governorship candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Bayelsa State Sen. Douye Diri said he is waiting for signal that everything is ready before he makes a move. 9:36 am Accreditation ongoing at Abujabare unit, Anyigba, Kogi state 9:30am Kogi poll: Accreditation commences at Ward A Lokoja peacefully Accreditation at Ward A Polling Station, Growther/ Sabongari, Lokoja, was on at 8.35 a.m. when a correspondent of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) visited the polling station. Voters were seen checking their names on the register pasted on the walls of Growther Memorial College, Lokoja, while others lined up, orderly, to be accredited. The exercise was peaceful and orderly. Men and officers of the Nigeria Police, Federal Road Safety Commission(FRSC), Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, the Customs Service, among other security outfits kept vigil to ensure maintenance of law and order. 09:20am Musa Wada votes Governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kogi has just voted. According to him, the election has been peaceful so far. 09: 10 am Voting yet to commence at Diri’s LGA Raymond Mordi Bayelsa: Voting is yet to commence at Sampou, Kolokuma LG the village of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Douye Diri. The community is flooded and the electoral officials have been displaced. They are still trying to set up. 09:01am Bello casts his vote Governorship candidate of the All Progressives Party (APC) and incumbent governor of Kogi State Yahaya Bello has voted. He voted at his Agasa, Okene LG polling unit, along side his wife at exactly 8.50am. 08:57am Kogi: At Okoro Gbede Primary school, voting started at about 8.00am with the elderly taking the lead, while others line up patiently waiting for their turn. Security at the unit was relaxed as the voters conducted themselves in a peaceful manner. However, some of the agents who were not comfortable with the polling officers folding the ballot papers before handing it over to the people, complained about it 08:49 am Kogi: Early accreditation/voting in Okene, as voters were seen in orderly queue in areas of Kuroko in Okehi LGA of Kogi Central. 08: 39 am Voting begins in Kogi Voting has commenced in Kogi state. There are more women present at the Okebukun central market polling units Voters turned out in large number at the Okebukun central market and the two polling units in the primary school in the town. When The Nation got to the polling unit at about 8.02am, the polling agents and security men were already on ground. The people were busy trying to identify their names on the list of registered voters pasted at the gate. The Nation