By Yinusa IsholaOmu-Aran (Kwara) – Rep. Raheem Olawuyi on  Monday urged Nigerians, especially Muslims, to reflect on the significance of Maulud (Birth of Prophet Mohammed) by complementing the Federal Government’s efforts toward ensuring desired good governance. Olawuyi, a member of the House of Representatives, gave the advice in a message to mark the Eid-el-Maulud in Omu-Aran. He said that government needed the support of the citizenry at this critical period to move the country forward. The lawmaker is representing Ekiti/Isin/Irepodun/Oke-Ero Federal Constituency. “The present administration under President Muhammadu Buhari is trying all the possible best to curb insecurity and shape our economy for the better. “Government cannot do it alone even within the resources and manpower available. “To achieve its objective of lifting 20 million Nigerians out of poverty in no distant future, it calls for a collective responsibility. “There is every need for citizens to give adequate support so that whatever the government is putting in place to secure lives and property and move the economy forward will succeed. “I believe that with prayers of the citizens, especially during this holy season of Maulud, the country will definitely overcome its security and socio-economic challenges,” he said. Olawuyi restated his commitment toward improving the living standard of the people of his constituency through improved health, transportation, empowerment and human capital development. He was optimistic that the recent training of 500 constituents on Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) would yield  the desired objectives. “We’ve started with some programmes in the area of health initiatives and empowerment and road rehabilitation is on-going while others are already in the pipeline. “Whatever that is due to the entire 42 wards across my constituency consisting of four councils will surely be delivered by the grace of God,” he said. Oba Abdulraheem Adeoti, the Olomu of Omu-Aran, on his part, said the desired good governance could only be achieved when the citizens imbibe unity, tolerance and peaceful co-existence. According to Adeoti, it is only with such good character and attitude, especially as devoted Muslims, that they can contribute their quota to government’s efforts in curbing insecurity and developing the economy. The monarch called on religious leaders to always use their teachings to promote love, unity and a society devoid of violence and acrimony. “You have a lot of work to do as the mirror of the society and God’s ambassadors on earth to ensure peaceful and harmonious atmosphere,” he said. Also speaking, Sheikh Sodiq Afolayan, the Chief Imam of Omu-Aran, urged Nigerians to continue to support the country’s leaders with prayers, to enable them to succeed in their assignment. The cleric said that the nation was in dire need of divine intervention through prayers in tackling the menace of insurgency, banditry, kidnapping, killings and armed robbery. Afolayan said leaders were chosen by God and deserved genuine respect, support and prayers of the led to achieve the desired objective. According to him, it is only through prayers of followers that leaders can receive divine guidance from God to lead successfully. He urged Muslims to embrace the sterling qualities and legacy of Prophet Muhammad in their dealings and association with fellow humans. Afolayan described Prophet Muhammad as an epitome of humility, diligence, trustworthiness and honesty, saying that such qualities endeared him to his followers while alive. “As patriotic citizens and devoted Muslims, always pray for leaders to succeed and excel,” he said. (NAN)