By Ahmed Abba Damaturu – Yobe Youth Socio Economic Development Forum, an NGO, in Damaturu has trained youths on cluster farming, agricultural value chain and enterprise development. The National Coordinator of the forum, Mr Abubakar Adamu said the sensitisation/training workshop was aimed at enhancing the skills of farmers and their ability to access agricultural loan facilities. “The ultimate aim of organising this workshop is to bring about the different stakeholders to proffer solutions on the issue of food security and improve the life of rural farmers through digitalisation of agriculture. “Other aims are to improve the lifestyle of farmers, form agricultural cooperative societies in the rural communities and access agricultural loan facilities,” he said. Adamu said that while addressing the issue of food security, it was also important to consider some prevailing circumstances in the Northeast region. “Boko Haram crises, global warming, desertification, and youth unemployment are some of the critical factors that necessitated our decision to train these youths,” he said. He acknowledged the efforts of international donor agencies in supporting the programme. “I acknowledge the efforts of the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) of the UN, the International Funds for Agricultural Development (IFAD), and the local-based NGOs and CSOs. “I also appreciate government agricultural funding agencies such as the Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL), Bank of Agriculture (BOA), and Development Finance Office (DFO) of the CBN among others,” he said. Malam Muhammed Gujba, a Crop Scientist from Yobe State University and a resource person, trained the participants in modern techniques of farming sweet potatoes, rice and cotton aside other crops. Malam Aliyu Abubakar, a representative of NIRSAL, Yobe, engaged the participants in the processes and requirements for securing loans for agricultural purposes. Abubakar called on the participants to embrace modern agribusiness, which according to him, is an avenue for wealth creation.