•Anambra State Governor’s wife, Mrs. Ebelechukwu Obiano AWKA – Wife of the Anambra State Governor, Mrs. Ebelechukwu Obiano, has denied social media reports that she invoked thunder on the wife of late Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu’s wife, Bianca Ojukwu, for calling out her husband, Governor Willie Obiano, over his inability to attend the second public lecture in memory of Chief Ojukwu.Mrs Obiano was also quoted to have said that Amb. Ojukwu’s anger towards her husband stemmed from her inability to clinch the ticket of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) to run for the Senatorial seat of Anambra South senatorial zone and the suspension of a monthly N20 million stipend paid her by the State Government for her sustenance.The report had quoted Amb Bianca Ojukwu to have described Governor Obiano as an ingrate who bit the fingers that fed him, saying that he had for a second time running since the kick-off of the yearly Ojukwu memorial lecture refused to attend but rather sent representatives.In a statement on Wednesday by the Deputy Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr Emeka Ozumba, on behalf of Mrs Obiano, she stated that she would never descend low to attack the wife of the late leader of the party no matter how provoked.The governor’s wife stressed that her husband’s government has accorded Amb. Bianca Ojukwu all courtesies due to her late husband.The statement partly reads: “We would like to inform the public that Her Excellency, Dr. Mrs Obiano, never made such a statement either in public or in private. She cannot, in any circumstance, make a statement like this, marked by a total lack of decorum and elegance.“Those who forged the statement are so unintelligent that they could not state whether the so-called reaction by Dr. Mrs Obiano was in a news release or an interview. Nor could they state the place where she ostensibly made the statement or the day.“The forgery is the work of political con artists who operate at the basest level possible. They work in cahoots with shadowy characters who are not happy at the phenomenal progress which Anambra State has recorded in various areas in recent years, leading the whole country in such fields as financial resource management, security, education, peace and stability, among others.“It is pure disinformation to allege that the Anambra State Government under Governor Willie Obiano has been paying Mrs Ojukwu N20m monthly. It is also a spurious claim to allege that Governor Obiano has built a house for Mrs Ojukwu in Nnewi.“What the state administration has done to Ambassador Ojukwu is to extend to her, courtesies which should be accorded the wife of the APGA leader. For instance, she has for years been a member of the APGA Board of Trustees. She remains so to this day, despite her tantrums against the party.” (NewsExpress)