Lagos State – Lagos State Police Command have arrested one Babatunde Damilare for allegedly stabbing a commercial sex worker, one Elochukwu, to death in the Surulere area of the state. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Bala Elkana, said in a statement on Sunday that Damilare and Elochukwu had engaged in a fight over the amount to be paid for her service when the suspect used a knife to stab her in the neck. He stated that Elochukwu died on the spot, adding that homicide detectives had arrested Damilare and would charge him. Elkana stated, “On Wednesday, November 6, 2019, around 11pm, the Surulere Police Station received information that a commercial sex worker, identified as Elochukwu, engaged her customer, Babatunde Damilare, in a fight over the price of sex at the Edo Inn, No. 17 Atan Street, Empire, Surulere. During the scuffle, the said Babatunde Damilare picked a knife and stabbed Elochukwu in her neck, which led to her death on the spot.“The suspect was arrested by homicide detectives led by the Divisional Police Officer, Surulere, CSP Adebayo Adeoya. The corpse of the deceased was evacuated and deposited in the Mainland Hospital morgue, Yaba, for autopsy. An investigation is ongoing. The suspect will be charged.” In another development, a 35-year-old man, Bunmi Adeyemi, has been arrested for allegedly defiling a five-year-old girl in the Bariga area of the state. Elkana said the suspect had confessed to the crime, adding that the victim had been taken to the Mirabel Centre for examination and treatment. He said, “On Tuesday, November 5, 2019, around 4.15pm, the Bariga Police Station arrested one Bunmi Adeyemi, 35, of No. 8 Alhaji Alake Street, Bariga, for defiling a five-year-old girl. The suspect was arrested by a team of detectives from the Family Support Unit and has confessed to the crime.“The victim was taken to the Mirabel Centre in Ikeja for treatment and forensic examination. The command’s Gender Unit has taken over the investigation and the suspect will be charged.” Also, operatives of the Operation Crush unit of the command have arrested six suspected members of the Aiye Confraternity for terrorising the Bariga area of the state. Elkana said the suspects, who were allegedly responsible for a series of murders and armed robberies in Bariga and environs, were arrested following sustained monitoring. He added that the suspects had been on the wanted list of the police for the murder of one Fashola in the Pedro area. Elkana said, “On Saturday, November 9, 2019, around 8.15pm, operatives of the Operation Crush arrested one Fatai Nofui, aka Itape, 28, and one Qudus Kazeem, aka, Bobo. The suspects were arrested in Ebute in Bariga, following sustained monitoring. They are members of the Aiye Confraternity with allegiance to their leader, one Mohammed, alias Obama, in Bariga. The gang is responsible for a series of violent attacks, armed robberies and murders in Bariga and environs.“They are on the police wanted list for the murder of one Fashola on Sunday, November 3, 2019, in the Pedro area of Bariga. Exhibits recovered from them include an axe, an HTC phone, one Nokia phone, and one Itel phone that they snatched from one Amusa Bukola.“Investigation led to the arrest of four other members of the gang, Muiyis Saraki, alias Bosingwa, 23; Lucky Sunday, 27; David Okpa, alias Na God, 29; and Taye Balogun, alias, Gbalagbala, 24. Investigation is ongoing and the suspects will be charged.” Source