There are certain Nigerian entertainers who have been nominated for the prestigious Grammy awards. These are those entertainers.  The Grammy Award, unarguably the biggest music award in the world, is presented annually by The Recording Academy to recognize achievements in the music industry.And some Nigerian musicians have been nominated at different times for the awards. It is interesting to note that these nominations have been for the World Best Music Category. See below the Nigerians that have earned Grammy nominations:King Sunny Ade Chief Sunday Adeniyi Adegeye is a juju singer, songwriter and multi-instrumentalist. King Sunny Ade has been nominated for the grammy twice.Synchro System [Grammy 1984]It was the second of King Sunny Adé’s three releases for Island Records, following on the heels of 1982’s Juju Music but was not as critically well-received as the first. The album was re-released in 1990 under the variant spelling Synchro System.Odu [Grammy 1999]Odu was released in 1998 on Mesa/Atlantic. Recorded at Dockside Studios, Maurice, Louisiana, it was produced by Andrew Frankel and features traditional Yoruba music. Odù means oracle in the Yoruba divination systems of Ifá.Babatunde Olatunji Babatunde Olatunji (April 7, 1927 – April 6, 2003) was a Nigerian drummer, educator, social activist, and recording artist. Olatunji was nominated once.Love Drum talk [Grammy 1998]Femi Kuti Olufela Olufemi Anikulapo Kuti is the eldest son of Afrobeat pioneer Fela Kuti and a grandchild of a political campaigner, women’s rights activist and traditional aristocrat Funmilayo Ransome Kuti. He began his musical career playing in his father’s band, Egypt 80.Femi Kuti has the highest grammy nominations in Nigeria, he has been nominated four times.Fight to Win [Grammy 2003]“Fight to Win” was released in mid-October 2001. The album featured a number of respected rap artists like Mos Def and Common.Day by Day [Grammy 2010]“Day by Day” released in mid-October 2008. A definitive album that helped to establish Femi as a true original with his own unique style; it was nominated for a Grammy award.Africa for Africa [Grammy 2012]“Africa for Africa” was released in 2011.No Place for My Dream [Grammy 2014]“No Place for My Dream” was released in June 2013 under Knitting Factory Records. Seun Kuti Oluseun Anikulapo Kuti the youngest son of famous afrobeat pioneer Fela Kuti. Seun leads his father’s former band Egypt 80. Black Times [Grammy 2019] Burna Boy African Giant [Grammy 2020]African Giant was released on July 26, 2019. It is Burna Boy’s fourth studio album.The album featured guest appearances from Zlatan Ibile, Jorja Smith, Jeremih, Serani, M.anifest, Damian Marley, Angelique Kidjo, Future and YG.  Source