By Huseyn Mbar Bauchi – No fewer than 2,000 members of Gudum Community in Bauchi metropolis of BauchiState would benefit from the Nigerian Army Women Corps (NAWC) Medical Outreach, an official has disclosed. The Commander, Nigerian Army Women Corps (NAWC), Maj-Gen. Praye Fakrogha disclosed this on Saturday in Bauchi while declaring open the two-day exercise. Fakrogha said that the beneficiaries would be given free diagnoses and drugs for whatever ailments that might be detected. He explained that the exercise was part of end of year routine for the NAWC established by the Chief of Army Staff, Lt-Gen. Yusuf Buratai in March 2018. Fakrogha said that the exercise included medical outreach, sanitation, show of force and traffic control. “We have done it in Yola, Gombe and today we are doing it here in Bauchi and we will move round to cover the six geopolitical zones. “This is coming under Civil Military Cooperation (CIMIC), and it is to foster the Nigerian Army’s resolve to change the negative perception of the citizens toward the army. “It is also to create cordial relationship with the host community in line with the chief of army staff vision to have a professionally responsive Nigerian Army in the discharge of its constitutional role,” he stated. According to him, “this unit is a creation of the chief of army staff and the personnel are women and they are to assist the army during operations. “They have just completed their training and will be deployed to various fields of operations in the country. “This has created a platform that women are capable of handing all situations. Therefore, I want to encourage other young ladies to join the army,” the commander urged. He explained that the programme was designed to alleviate the sufferings of the people who could not afford quality medical care. The Ward Head of Gudum, Alhaji Umar Tukur, commended the Nigerian Army for the gesture. Tukur called on other humanitarian agencies to emulate the Nigerian Army considering the poor nature of the community. Hafsatu Salisu, a house wife who benefited from the gesture, said that was the second time Nigerian Army had conducted such programme in the area. Hafsatu, who said she and her one-year old baby were sick, said that the assistance was coming at a time she was in serious financial crisis. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that patients with various medical conditions were diagnosed and treated while those with complex cases were referred to hospitals. (NAN)