Abuja (Sundiata Post) – A coalition in the South-South to stave off move to unseat the embattled national chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole is in the offing. Some chieftains of the party from the South-South geopolitical zone met last night at the residence of Comrade Oshiomhole who incidentally is from the zone. The meeting was at the instance of the national vice chairman South-South of the party, Honourable Hillard Eta. Some of the party chieftains in their opening remarks before the meeting dissolved into a closed-door session stressed the need to work as a united political family in the party. Deputy senate president, Ovie Omo Agege expressed concern over orchestrated plot to remove Comrade Oshiomhole as national chairman and appealed for support for the former Edo state governor whom he described as “our own that must not be antagonised.” He said: “This meeting holds a lot of significance considering the crisis that has bedevilled the zone. It has been bittersweet. The attempt of late to remove the national chairman, the position that is very key given to the South-South. Why are we antagonising our own? We have to stand by him. The party in the zone hasn’t fared very well. It is important to close ranks against the raging war.” The zonal chairman, Honourable Eta who said the meeting was to appraise the performance of the party in the last general elections and the recent feat recorded with its victory in Bayelsa state, which he noted was an addition to states under its control in the zone admonished warring chieftains in the zone to close ranks. He further admonished them to avoid media war on issues that affect the party. He said: “The last time we had the meeting was before the presidential election. Let us mention what has happened since our last election, the emergence of Omo Agege as deputy Senate president which was contested between the south-east and South-south. Also notable is the election of our candidate in Bayelsa state, David Lyon, who won the election, making us have two states out of six in the region. “In certain states in the south-south, the results from the general election was not too encouraging. In Cross rivers state, the party wasn’t even allowed to present a candidate. Also, the party lost the Akwa Ibom state election in a funny way. I want to say that if the South-South disagrees at home, we should explore way and means to reconcile. The media should be the last resort. In Edo and Rivers state, we must find a solution to the problem. I want to beg all warring parties to sheathe their swords.” Their host and national chairman of the party, Comrade Oshiomhole expressed delight over what he called impressive turn out despite the cynicism that trailed the open invitations to all members of the South-South caucus. He acknowledged the raging crisis in his home state of Edo state but said he was determined to make a concession for genuine reconciliation. “We are grateful for coming this far, we won Kogi, we won Bayelsa. Edo election is next year, about some months away. You see, there is bound to be internal wrangling and issues. We must make extra efforts so that wherever there is disagreement, there must be reconciliation. “There were so many cases in court after the election but we haven’t had any upturn by the courts from our governors. Regardless of what some persons have said, here we are with a large turnout of members of the caucus.” Nigerian Tribune checks revealed that some notable chieftains of the party stayed away from the meeting who are Edo state governor, Godwin Obaseki, Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, his counterpart in the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswil Akpabio and the Director General of Nigeria Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA, Dakuku Peterside. In attendance were Chief Don Etiebet, Senator Ndoma Egba, Senator Ita Enang, Chief Umanah Umanah, amongst others. A party source also revealed that the meeting also discussed the power tussle for the control of the Board of Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC. An interim management board put in place by Senator Akpabio still administer the NDDC despite the senate screening of the 15 member nominee sent to the Red Chamber by President Muhammadu Buhari. Findings revealed that chairman and managing director of the moribund Board, Bernard Okumagba and Dr Pius Obudu, were nominees of Comrade Oshiomhole and Deputy Senate President, Omo Agege. At the end of the meeting, Deputy Senate President, Omo Agege was elected as leader of the party in the South-South zone. A committee was set up to look into the crisis rocking the Edo and Cross Rivers state chapter of the party. A vote of confidence was passed on the national chairman of the party. Culled from Tribune 