By Segun Giwa Akure – Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has urged students in the country to shun all social vices, including internet fraud. Akeredolu made the appeal in Akure on Sunday during the 2019 celebration of International Students Day tagged: “The Global Compact Under Scrutiny: Implication for Academic Mobility and International Exchange”. The governor, represented by Special Adviser on Education, Science and Technology, Mrs Juliet Ilawole, said he was delighted to join other world leaders to celebrate students. Akeredolu noted that the fundamentals, philosophy and objectives of student unionism had been compromised with hooliganism and moral decadence. “In an attempt to drive our education sector and place it on the path of sustainable development, you will recall that an Ondo State Education Summit was held in 2017. “In furtherance of our vision and policy objectives on educational development in the state. “This has given impetus to the realisation of our administration’s educational goals. “I want to reiterate the commitment of our administration to your education and to reassure you of an appropriate place in the socio-economic trajectory of our state,’’ he said. According to him, efforts are being intensified to encourage the learning and teaching of science subjects and courses right from the elementary to tertiary institutions in our state. “To this end, science equipment were recently supplied to schools in the state. “The ongoing upgrading of infrastructure facilities in the state-owned tertiary institutions is, therefore, a testimony of our administration’s determination to give a holistic overhaul of our education system,” Akeredolu said. Also speaking, the Commissioner for Youth and Sports Development, Mr Dotun Owanikin, lauded the giant strides achieved in the educational sector of the state. Owanikin commended the impact of the government by using sports to curb as many menaces as possible by taking youths off the streets via sports. The Special Assistant to the Governor on Youth and Student Affairs, Mr Banjo Adewumi, said government would continue to cooperate with students to continue to bring sanity to university environment. Adewumi said that since the governor came on board, bursary had been regular for all students of the state origin.