By Lucy Osuizigbo and Yinka Olawale Lagos – Gov.  Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State on Monday said that his administration would partner with the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in the areas of  youth empowerment, skills acquisition and entrepreneurship. Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by his deputy,  Dr Obafemi Hamzat, said this at the opening of the 2019 Batch ‘B’ NYSC Pre-Orientation workshop in Lagos. The workshop had the theme ‘Reinvigorating the NYSC Orientation Course for a Successful Service Year”. He said that the scheme reflected the unity in diversity of the country and had grounds to break in realising a more developed and greater Nigeria through youth orientation and empowerment. “Our administration will continue to support the scheme to achieve its noble objective. “We will deepen the existing partnership we have with NYSC, especially in the areas of skills acquisition and entrepreneurship trainings as well as empowerment for self employment. “This is in our pursuit, in order to ensure sustainable livelihoods for the youths in the state,  ” he said. Sanwo-Olu commended the Director-General,  staff of NYSC and corps members  nationwide for their contribution toward the success of the 2019 general elections. In her address, Mrs Victoria Okakwu, Director, Planning, Research and Statistics, NYSC,  said that the workshop was to evaluate previous orientation courses and bring on new strategies for the forthcoming exercise. The Director-General, NYSC, Brig. Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, in his remark, said that the workshop was a forum for NYSC managers and collaborating partners to review and tackle identified challenges of the scheme. “The choice of the theme of this workshop: ” Reinvigorating the NYSC Orientation Course for a Successful Service Year”, is informed by our desire to sustain proper induction and preparation of eligible graduates for dedicated and hitch-free service to our fatherland. “I am  pleased to inform you that the scheme is working tirelessly towards the successful conduct of the 2019 Batch ‘B’ Orientation course nationwide. “This forum will, therefore, help to fine-tune our arrangements and policy guidelines for the successful execution of the course by all stakeholders,” he said.