•As the world’s population is set to stop growing by end of the century •Nigeria, four other African countries projected to be world’s top 10 most populous countries by 2100 •The number of births in Nigeria to exceed those in China by 2070 •With 733m people, 864m births Nigeria’s population only 3rd behind India and China Senator Iroegbu In what many have warned as a ticking time bomb in view of prevailing poor infrastructure and economic indicators, the Nigerian population is expected to grow closer to one billion people at an estimated 733 million by the year 2100. This was contained in a detailed report by Pew Research Center sighted on Tuesday by Global Sentinel. The Report which also predicted that the world’s population will stop growing in the end of next 80 years. According to Pew, the global population is expected to grow by about 3.1 billion people between 2020 and 2100. It noted that more than half of this increase is projected to come from Nigeria, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Tanzania, Ethiopia and Angola, along with one non-African country (Pakistan). Five African countries including Nigeria “are projected to be in the world’s top 10 countries by population by 2100,” the report said. It noted that while other regions will decline, Africa is the only world region projected to have strong population growth for the rest of this century. Pew Research Center further predicted that “between 2020 and 2100, Africa’s population is expected to increase from 1.3 billion to 4.3 billion. Projections show these gains will come mostly in sub-Saharan Africa, which is expected to more than triple in population by 2100. “ “The regions that include the United States and Canada (Northern America) and Australia and New Zealand (Oceania) are projected to grow throughout the rest of the century, too, but at slower rates than Africa. (This analysis uses regional classifications from the UN and may differ from other Pew Research Center reports.)”. The report also revealed that while India will overtake China by 2100 as the world’s most populated country with Nigeria in third, half of babies born worldwide are expected to be born in Africa by 2100, up from three-in-ten today. It also noted that “Nigeria is expected to have 864 million births between 2020 and 2100, the most of any African country. The number of births in Nigeria is projected to exceed those in China by 2070”. Source: Global Sentinel.