By Masara Kim JOS – A Central Nigerian college student, Mrs. Leritshimwa Diyal who reportedly gave birth in kidnappers’ den last two weeks is currently being investigated for ‘stealing’ a baby. See https://sundiatapost.com/2019/06/12/commotion-as-3-day-old-baby-gets-stolen-from-hospital-in-plateau/ The Plateau College of Health Zawang, Jos student is thought to have framed her kidnap to escape with the stolen baby. Police however went after her while “treating” the baby at a local medical facility, Bingham University Teaching Hospital, Jos. This followed reports of a missing baby in Government owned Plateau Specialists hospital, on same 31st May 2019, when Mrs. Diyal was admitted with the baby after repeatedly putting to bed three days earlier in her supposed kidnappers’ custody. Mrs. Mary Chukwuebuka, mother of the stolen baby had told Police that a woman disguised as a medical personnel took her baby for “medical examination” but never returned. Mrs. Diyal is reported to have been identified as having taken the female baby on her third day of age, while dressed as a nurse. She is said to have confessed to the crime but Police authorities say they are still investigating. “The Police immediately wrote to the hospital on 03/05/19 for the hospital to examine her as to whether she gave birth naturally within the period she so claimed. “The Police also wrote to Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH) on 03/06/19 where she claimed she attended ante-natal care so as to confirm her claim or otherwise. “We are still waiting for the reply from the above named hospital to further our investigation,” said DSP Tyopev Matthias Terna, the Police Public Relations Officer, Plateau State Command, Jos in a statement on Friday. Mr. Terna has however exclusively confirmed that both the suspect and the baby were in Police custody. No comment has been obtained from the suspect or her family. Until the publishing of this report, calls made to Leritshimwa’s husband, Mr. Dunji Diyal were unsuccessful as his phone lines were switched off. •Photo: Mrs. Leritshimwa Diyal, suspected of stealing a baby in Jos, Nigeria •Source: mkreporters.media