By Leo Okachie Umuahia – Rev. Msonter James-Egbenigwe, the State Pastor of Dunamis Int’l Gospel Centre, Umuahia, has said that the 2019 South-East Ministers/Church Workforce Conference will propel rapid socio-economic development in the zone. James-Egbenigwe said this while briefing newsmen in Umuahia on the level of preparedness by the church for the two-day solemn event, billed to begin on June 13 at the International Conference Centre, Umuahia. He specifically said that the host state, Abia, would be liberated at the end of the conference and made to become one of the the leading states in the zone. He said: “Abia needs divine intervention. It is about one of the most backward states in the zone. “Wrong alters shall be visited and eradicated and the meeting will bring about total liberation for the state. “The people shall be revived spiritually. Their attitude and mindset will change positively and the land will experience social and economic transformation.” The cleric further said that the spirit of immorality and drunkenness that were pervading the land would be destroyed for prosperity and development to take place. He said that the meeting would serve as a refresher course for the ministers of God that would attend, saying, “it is training the trainers fire conference for pastors and church workers.” He said that although this year’s edition, with the theme, “A fire devoureth before them,” was for the Southeast, attendance would cut across the South-south and other parts of the country. James-Egbenigwe said that Gov. Okezie Ikpeazu and his deputy, Chief Ude-Okochukwu, were expected to be at the event, which would be presided over by the Snr. Pastor of the church, Dr. Paul Enenche. He said that logistics and security arrangements had been concluded to ensure a hitch-free conference, saying that the church was not unmindful that ultimate security comes from God. He said that the police, army and Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps had been formally written to assist in providing security at the venue. He also said that the church had applied to the Federal Road Safety Corps to assist in controlling traffic, especially around the venue. (NAN)