IBADAN (Sundiata Post) – The Governor of Oyo State, Mr. Seyi Makinde on Monday in Ibadan inaugurated the 9th Oyo State House of Assembly, declaring his readiness to guarantee legislative autonomy. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, indicated that the Governor had earlier issued a proclamation for the inauguration of the State Assembly pursuant to Section 105 (3) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended). According to the statement, the governor also promised that his administration would facilitate a new kind of synergy with the legislature. Governor Makinde stated that Oyo State will not move forward if the executive, the legislature and the Judiciary fail to work together. He said: “We exist; the executive, legislature and judiciary, to move Oyo State forward in the right direction. I will do everything in my power to see that there is a good working relationship between the arms of government, even as we expect the legislature to carry out its oversight functions diligently. We will respect the autonomy of the legislative arm of government and sustain the doctrine of separation of powers as enshrined in the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended). “Oyo State cannot move forward if we do not work together. This is why I am using this opportunity to implore you to work with us, putting the interests of the good people of Oyo State who elected us, first.” Governor Makinde said that his resolve to jerk up annual budgetary allocation to Education sector in the state to 10 percent is irreversible adding that the measure is a worthy cause. He also restated his resolve to set up an anti-corruption commission for the state, while also instituting an investment promotion commission to expand the state’s economy. He said that the two bills would soon land on the table of the lawmakers. He said: “I, therefore, want to use this opportunity to mention that two of the first bills the executive will be sponsoring are; the Oyo State Investment Promotion Agency Bill and the Oyo State Financial Crimes Commission Bill. “In keeping with our campaign promise to make Oyo State the preferred investment destination in Nigeria, the Oyo State Investment Promotion Agency (OYSIPA) Bill, 2019, will birth an agency that will initiate, promote, facilitate and coordinate investments in the state through Greenfield, Public-Private Partnerships, Privatisation, Commercialisation of state-owned assets, and transform the economy of the state through strategic Asset Management. “Furthermore, the Oyo State Financial Crimes Commission Bill will create a state agency that will ensure transparency and accountability in both state and private sector, and work with the police in Oyo State to reduce economic and financial crimes to the barest minimum. “We cannot have people willing to invest in the state when they are unsure their investments will be protected against fraud by relevant agencies. When we say Oyo State means business, we match our words with actions. We build strong institutions to ensure it is not business as usual.” Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Hon. Adebowale Ogundoyin, who was elected at the sitting, said that the legislature would run an open door policy, adding that since elections are over, the time was ripe for the lawmakers to set sights on the task of building Oyo State.