Abuja (Sundiata Post) -A United Kingdom based education and political consultant, Samuel Taiwo Brown has stressed the need for Nigerian government to involve professionals in the management of the educational sector for improved and quality education in the system. Mr Taiwo, who is also an APC Member -United Kingdom, made the call in a congratulatory message to the newly elected Senate President, Senator Ahmed Lawan and Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila. The Consultant wished the duo every success in the performance of the all important and responsible duties required of them by their exalted positions He also expressed confident that during the 9th assembly, Nigeria will continue to develop a successful people-to-people dialogue adding that close cooperation on youth’s empowerment through our youth employment programs, will make our Nigerian youths stronger and open new avenues for our citizens. Speaking further, the International Education and Political Strategist who has over the years, taken part in developing Education standards in countries like America, United Kingdom and many African countries, believes the whole purpose of education is to turn mirrors into windows. According to him, It’s time Nigerian Leaders take the re-structuring of our Education system that are in serious dis-repair and revert to the high standards we uphold many years ago. “For us to empower, to maintain standards, and quality, we need to set a new minimum standards, maintaining and constantly improving all schools, he emphasised. Mr. Taiwo Also stated that in order to achieve uniform standards, in the federation, the Federal Ministry of Education, needs to think out of box by getting a new body to promote high standards and guard our education system, reform our basic education and possibly form a new body, for example, Nigeria office of standards in Education. (NOFSTED) He informed that many Nigerian youths, Student Union and many other Nigerians aware of his capacity in this regard, are urging him to lead a better education system campaign, haven seen his contribution in improving standards abroad. “It time our leaders use an experienced educationist expert to improve standards in Nigerian education, he reiterated. “An educational system isn’t worth a great deal if it teaches young people how to make a living but doesn’t teach them how to make a life.” he said Mr Taiwo who congratulated the principal officers of the National Assembly prayed for continued happiness and prosperity of all Nigerians. 