The Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria MACBAN has denied an online publication (not by Sundiata Post) credited to the South-East chairman of the group, Alhaji Guess Sidikki, saying that it was the act of mischief makers. The publication had said that the zone will soon boil because of the stubbornness of the governors. Speaking with journalists on Tuesday in Awka, Sidikki described the publication as fake and malicious. He said: “Few days ago, we woke up to a malicious publication in a Social Media platform, Akelicious.com/proxy/, purporting a phantom statement in Abuja entitled ‘South East will Boil any moment from now because of their Stubbornness’ ascribed to the leadership of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, erroneously assigned to me” He insisted that they do not have any issues with their host states even he warned mischief makers to stop their malicious publications.” The MACBAN zonal chairman noted that the malicious publication was aimed at causing rift between the Cattle breeders, the Governors and people of the zone. While saying the people of the southeast have been good to them since inception Sidikki said: “My mission here is simply to expose the lie in the mischievous publication. First, while it is my wish to inform the public that Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria did not make any statement to the effect of the content of the publication either in Abuja or anywhere for that matter. “I humbly would wish to correctly place my designation as the Chairman of South East Zone of the Association and not ‘the leader of cattle breeders in Nigeria’ as I was addressed in the primary falsehood the publication sought to disseminate. “Again, I wish to put it on record that the South East Zone of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, MACBAN, and her cattle herder members whom I serve as the Zonal Chairman enjoy warm relationship with the governors, governments and people of South East Nigeria. “I wish to state that this warmth has not been completely devoid of flashes of momentary conflicts at few locations. Such instances were however promptly addressed by the authorities and warm communality restored amongst the people.” Sidikki added: “Given the increasing orientation and re-orientation of our people and the locals, who are our landlords here, and given the strong commitment of the state governors to peaceful relationship across board, one harbours no doubts that the relationship between our herders and their landlords can only be increasingly better as time progresses. “It is, therefore, my intention, while dispelling the published rumour from the pit of malicious mischief, to share my upbeat spirit with all of us. It is my utmost belief.” Sidikki insisted that he had not visited Abuja for the past one month adding that he was only the Chairman of MACBAN in Southeast and not President as quoted. According to him, duty calls one to rise and save the society from the pains of misinformation consequent upon the permissiveness of the Social Media saying that the sincere and committed understanding shared will yield minimal rancour, “if not rancor-free society tomorrow.” He commended the southeast Governors for what he described as wonderful sense of accommodation, pledging that they will continue to help build a harmonious environment for thriving economic activities and better life. •Source: News Express