The decomposed body of a Rivers state indigene, Inedukoba Charles Tyger, was on Tuesday June 25th, exhumed from a shallow grave in Abalama Sandfield Asari-Toru Local Government Area in Rivers state, months after he was declared missing by family and friends. A friend of the deceased, Ibiye Dokubo, had raised alarm on February 26th, via his Facebook page, that Tyger, had gone missing. According to Dokubo’s post, Tyger and his wife were at loggerheads after she found out he had impregnated another lady. Sharing photos of the couple on the social media platform, Dokubo wrote; MISSING PERSON!!! I dont know what to say for now but I remembered the last time you spoke with me that you are with your wife in Abalama and I insisted you give her the phone for us to talk and I queried her of her decision to reconcile with you on that Saturday evening but uptill now we cannot hear from you and your wife have left to somewhere only God knows, but I pray you come alive to tell us what happened…but as for her if she knows what transpired as your wife then she cannot hide forever because the long arm of the law must surely cut up with her. In another post on March 1st, Dokubo wrote; This is the wife of the missing man Mr. Tyger Inedukoba Charles, he was with her on Saturday before his sudden disappearance till date, they had issues because he impregnated another woman and up till now she had packed out of their rented apartment, she had transferred herself to an unknown LGA, she don’t pick her calls and she is hiding from the truth so please help me share this until we get her arrested or better still report her to any police station if you see her..thanks” After many weeks of detailed investigation and thorough search, the corpse of Mr Tyger was exhumed yesterday, June 25th in the Asari-Toru local government area in the state. The wife, Ajemina Douglas, has been accused of killing him and burying his remains under the bridge. She was allegedly arrested by the police recently and she led the officers to the shallow grave where he was buried. The state police command is yet to release a statement on this case. See photos of the deceased body after it was exhumed below. Source