By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – As the 8th Senate ended its historic tenure on Thursday, June 6th, 2019, some senators of the 8th Assembly have made some remarks about Saraki as it held its final valedictory session. At the event, Senators took their turns to speak about the last four years, and what the institution has been able to achieve during that time. One trend that stood out, were the comments made about outgoing Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, the Senator representing Kwara Central in the 8th National Assembly. These were a few of their comments: “Senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki, you are truly a great team player. That is one thing we will be willing to share with your successor,” said Senator Emmanuel Bwacha, the Senate Deputy Minority Leader “I salute your leadership courage, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, to work for the common purpose of making laws for the federal republic of Nigeria. I will not forget the troubled times we have been through. As far as the 8th Senate is concerned, you have led us well,” said Senator Philip Aduda, the Senate Minority Whip. “Your leadership has been the most impactful, Bukola Saraki. History will be kind to you. In effectiveness, the 8th Senate has a good place in history and the 9th Senate will have a lot to learn from it. This Senate led by Bukola Saraki has passed a high number of Bills and Motion. We’re forever grateful for this rare opportunity,” said Senator Bassey Akpan, the Senator representing Akwa Ibom North- East. “Nothing good comes easy, but sometimes we have to give way. Thank you, Bukola Saraki, my leader, my mentor,” said Senator Binta Masi Garba, the outgoing Senator representing Adamawa North Senatorial District in the 8th Senate and a staunch Buhari supporter. “I thank the Almighty who is the supreme controller of the universe. When canckerworms and caterpillars attacked you, I addressed you as the irremovable Senate President, Bukola Saraki. To my surprise, many of those who orchestrated your downfall and removal have now called you their mentor, only God give and take power. The happiest day in my life was the day Senate President, Abubakar Bukola Saraki emerged as the Senate President,” said Senator Dino Melaye, the Senator representing Kogi West, and a key ally of outgoing Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki. “I urge my colleagues, especially those coming back to see this country as one nation. I want to particularly thank the Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, and DSP, Ike Ekweremadu. May God continue to bless them for their leadership,” said Senator Obinna Ogba, the Senator representing Ebonyi Central Senatorial District. “I have been here for 20yrs and I can say without fear that you, Bukola Saraki, have developed the Senate to an enviable height,” said Senator David Mark, the President of the 6th and 7th National Assemblies, and the Senator representing Benue South Senatorial District in the 6th, 7th and 8th National Assemblies. “I respect you for your resilience and always standing for what you believe in Bukola Saraki. I have never taken anybody consciously on personal basis, I do that based on what I think is right,” said Senator Ali Ndume, former Senate Leader and a key contender for the Presidency of the 9th Senate. “80% of my votes came from the IDP, so I am an IDP Senator. I remember the Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, taking a trip to Maiduguri to assess the Security situation. This development gave rise to the North-East Development Commission Bill (NEDC Bill). And also, the commitment and contributions from our colleagues both in cash and kind,” said Senator Abubakar Kyari, the Senate representing Borno North Senatorial District in the 8th National Assembly. ”Whatever has a beginning must have an end and so today, the 8th Senate comes to an end. You directed us very well and did your best, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki,” said the Chairman of the Senate Services Committee, Senator Ibrahim Gobir. “When I came here, you, Bukola Saraki, gave me opportunity to serve well, even though I resumed this 8th Assembly late. I have been very active for the 17months I have been in the Senate and I sponsored two Bills during this period. This Senate has gotten so much work done,” said Senator Victor Umeh, the Senator representing Anambra Central in the 8th National Assembly.