By Stephen Adeleye Examination Lokoja – The Kogi Government on Monday urged the management of National Examinations Council (NECO), to effectively carry the state along in the conduct of its examinations, to ensure quality supervision. The state’s Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Mrs Rosemary Osikoya, made the call after a stakeholders’ meeting, which she held with the State Officer of NECO, Mr Ibrahim Agabi, in Lokoja. According to Osikoya, the ministry recently had a review of its activities, which revealed that it had not been receiving certain correspondences regarding the examinations from NECO as it should be. She said that today’s meeting was to examine the processes that were going on in NECO examinations, and how they were being conducted, to ensure quality at all times. “There is  need for more collaboration with NECO at the state level, to enable them cooperate with the state to maintain the standard of education. “We have not been receiving feedback from NECO as in the case of WAEC in terms of examination malpractice. “In the past 19 months, NECO has not referred to the state, the incidences of examination malpractice as well as the state’s performance in the national ratings and evaluation. “We also want to ensure that quality examination supervisors from the state, who have the minimum criteria and also understand their job are engaged for supervision,” Osikoya said. She added that the state was also engaging  security agencies especially the police to ensure prosecution of examination defaulters, to ensure sanctity in the process. She said the ministry would make, implement and review policies from time to time, to ensure that the quality of education was strengthened in the state. “I am happy today’s meeting was fruitful, because we have discussed deeply. It is a question of not engaging effectively, and I am satisfied with the outcome, ” Osikoya said. On his part, Mr Ibrahim Agabi, State Officer, NECO, said the policy statement of NECO was to always conduct examinations devoid of any unethical behaviour. He assured the commissioner of a more robust partnership and cordial relationship between NECO and the ministry, saying the necessary adjustment would be made in earnest. “The intention is to achieve only one goal; that is, giving the Nigerian child what he deserves; a credible conduct of examination. “We have set measures in place in terms of registration process, appointment of supervisors, and monitoring officers through strict adherence to the specified qualifications,” Agabi said. Agabi noted that the 2019 NECO Senior Secondary School Examination (SSCE) commenced today, (Monday), June 17 to end on July 12.