OWERRI (Sundiata Post) – Imo State Governor, Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, has appointed a former member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Uche Onyeaguocha as Secretary to the State Government (SSG).According to a statement signed by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Chibuike Onyeukwu on Saturday, Ihedioha also approved the appointment of Chief Chris Okewulonu as Chief of Staff (COS).In addition, Mr. Chima Nwana and Chief Chinemerem Madu were appointed deputy chief of staff and chief of protocol respectively. Onyeaguocha, a lawyer, studied at the University of Calabar as well as Rivers State University of Science and Technology where he graduated with degrees in History and Law respectively. A pro-democracy campaigner and ardent human rights activist, he was a member of the House of Representatives from 2003 to 2007. Onyeaguocha has held the position of Special Adviser on Policy and Strategic Matters to the Imo State Governor. He was one of the leaders of Campaign for Democracy, Democratic Alternative, Civil Liberties Organisation and United Action for Democracy that led to the return of democracy in 1999.Chief Okewulonu, a legal practitioner by training has held key positions of trust in government. He was a member of Imo State House of Assembly in addition to being a former commissioner in the state. He has also served as Secretary to the Imo State Government. He was later appointed a Federal Commissioner, representing the South East in the Fiscal Responsibility Commission, Abuja. He was the Director-General, Ihedioha Campaign Organisation (2013 – 2015) and is a tested and experienced public administrator. He hails from Obowo Local Government Area. Nwana was trained in the leading institutions, including the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, where he bagged LL.B; Thames Valley University U.K.,(Post Graduate  Certificate); the Management School, London and ILO Training Institute, Turin Italy, among others.  He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Mediators and Conciliators (ICMC), Maritime Law Consultant, Chartered Mediator and governance expert.He has diverse public service experience, previously serving variously as special sssistant to Ministers of Commerce & Industry as well as Employment, Labour & Productivity.  He has also been a member of key Federal Government committees including Presidential Committee on Maritime Security, Ministerial Committee on Cabotage, Trade Policy Review and Ministerial Committee on National Transport Commission etc. He hails from Ideato North Local Government Area.Chief Madu holds a B.Sc and MBA  degrees from the University of Lagos. He was the Second Best Graduating Student (MBA 2006)  and President, MBA Students’ Association.He became the PDP chairman, Ezinihitte Local Government Area in 2009, and was re-elected in 2016, a position he holds till date.He also has robust experience from his stint in the banking sector and at various levels of corporate executive management. 