By Ismaila chafe Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday dispatched a Federal Government delegation to support Nigeria’s candidate, Prof. Tijjani Ban, at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) election. A statement by the President’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, in Abuja on Sunday, said the delegation was heading to New York ahead of election for the Presidency of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) scheduled to hold on June 4. Bande, who is the Permanent Representative of Nigeria to the UN, will become the second Nigerian to be elected President of UNGA after retired Maj.-Gen. Joseph Nanven Garba, who held the position between 1989 and 1990. Shehu disclosed that the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Amb. Mustapha Sulaiman, is leading the delegation which included the Director-General, National Intelligence Agency, Amb. Ahmed Rufai Abubakar. Other members of the delegation included the Executive Secretary, Petroleum Technology Development Fund, Dr. Bello Gusau; and Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu. ”President Buhari is confident that Nigeria’s Presidency of the 74th session of the UN General Assembly will provide a unique opportunity for Nigeria to lead the global call to tackle the political, social, economic and environmental challenges facing the world. ”Nigeria looks forward to working with UN member states to promote international peace and security, prevent conflict, strengthen global action to tackle climate change, ensure inclusion, human rights, and empowerment of youth and women. ”Nigeria hopes to build on progress made under Ecuador’s Presidency of the 73rd Assembly led by María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés, and further promote key themes that President Buhari has championed on the global stage since 2015. ”These include climate change, combating terrorism and violent extremism, and establishing functional anti-corruption mechanisms to assist countries like Nigeria recover and repatriate stolen funds,” Shehu added.