By Margie Bowling I recently flew Emirates for the first time. Flying from O’Hare to Dubai then connecting to Delhi. The rest of my group chose Air India. It was a direct flight and considered more economical. I had heard Emirates was more luxurious and since this was the longest flight I had ever been on, I opted for paying a bit more. I also was warned Air India wasn’t all that great either. I recall the difference between Air India and Emirates was only a couple hundred US dollars. When I checked in the night before my flight out of O’Hare, as I always do, I checked the upgrade rates. You just never know what kind of a deal you will get. I found quite the deal: for only $200 I upgraded to business class. By the time I was sent to the front of the lines at TSA and priority boarding due to my upgrade status, I felt like it had already paid itself back. Then I boarded and found my seat in business class. Wow. What a treat that was. I had a semi-private cabin with a large flat screen TV and a wide range of movies, TV, music and a very interesting interactive screen that shows you the flight course. First-rate service, shortly after take off and prior to landing you are given lavender infused hot towels to clean up with. I was handed a satin purse with expensive perfume, toiletries and goodies. Dinner was served in real dishes, including appetizer, salad, soup, main dish, dessert, cocktails and wine throughout the flight. The bathrooms throughout the entire plane are clean and stocked with quality hygiene products. In fact the entire plane is clean and lush. For sleeping I was given an extra cushion to sleep on, my seat transformed into a fully reclining horizontal bed. The next morning when they announced our plane was within an hour of landing in Dubai, I could have kept sleeping. I went to the galley to search out a cup of coffee and was greeted by a delightful young man in uniform with a Lebanese accent, he served me espresso with a real cup and saucer including biscotti on the side. I traveled Emirates Economy Class on the way back to the States. There were just a few slight differences, I was just as comfortable, only I didn’t have the semi-private cabin without the full reclining seat, but still had amazing leg room, food, and entertainment. Free booze, they even leave the cart out in the galley, for you to help yourself whenever you want to stretch your legs and hang out with other passengers. My friends who flew Air India from the States and back, were miserable and jealous. So worth a couple hundred dollars more. Source: Quora