ABUJA – Mr Ben-Bright Mkpuma is a well-travelled and successful Nigerian journalist who has worked with so many local and international media organisations including one he set up himself – Watchdog Reporters – until he was diagnosed of Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD). Before setting up Watchdog Reporters, which is an online newspaper, he had worked with organisation Mr Mkpuma has worked with CNBC, Abuja Times, Financial Standard,Telegraph and AIT. Mr Mkpuma has been bedridden for three years now since he started battling kidney failure. His condition hasn’t gotten any better and the only hope of survival is to get a kidney transplant. To stay alive till transplant is possible, he is currently undergoing dialysis at least three times a week with a nephrologist in Abuja. The financial burden has been so much for his family because the dialysis costs at least N90,000 a week and N360,000 monthly, apart from medications that help control his blood pressure. According to his doctors, if he is not placed on dialysis, he will die. Of the 17,000 new cases of CKD that are diagnosed yearly, only 2,000 can afford dialysis treatment in Nigeria. To perform a kidney transplant for Mr Mkpuma, his family needs to raise at least N8.5 million. But even before that, there will be medical tests for possible donors, and each test cost about N2 million.After a successful transplant, his doctors also said that there will be a post-transplant stage of recovery and reintegration. This includes drugs and injections for one year that will cost another N6 million. ‘’I am asking for help from all Nigerians. My family has done their best but it won’t be enough unless I get more financial support from others. I need their financial help for the transplant and to live well again even after the transplant. God will reward you as you help me,’’ he said on his sick bed. Kindly help Mr Mpkuma live again. Below is the bank account information for donation.Account details to use are as follows: Account Number: 1003711887 Account Name: Ben Bright Mkpuma Bank: Zenith Bank Plc.