By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) –
The Chief Commissioner of Scout Association of Nigeria, Mr David Awunah, on
Wednesday tasked members of the association to lead the campaign against drug
abuse and illicit trafficking in Nigeria. Awunah made the call
in a statement to mark the United Nations (UN) International Day Against Drugs
Abuse and illicit Trafficking organized by the Scouts in Nigeria, in Abuja. According to him, ”A  day like this called for  sober reflections among our Youths, families
and individuals because of the scourge in our society” Adding that the future
of the nation is bleak if nothing drastic is done to curb the menace “Today, as in every
26th day of June in recent past, The United Nations [UN] is marking
International Day Against Drug Abuse & Illicit Trafficking in the light of
a daunting drug scourge that is facing the world and attendant wide-ranging
impacts on the health and well-being of individuals, families, and communities,
as well as on the security and sustainable development of nations,” he stated. In his message, the
Secretary-General – Mr Antonio Guterres went further to state that preventing
and addressing drug challenges in all their complexity is essential to
delivering on a fundamental global pledge as enshrined in the Sustainable
Development Goals “to leave no one behind’’. According to the Chief
Commissioner,” In Nigeria as we all may be aware, the menace is alarmingly
increasing by the day especially with a growing population of about 200million
out of which about 100m are young people with 50% of that allegedly involved in
one form of drug abuse or the other, some very recklessly. This invariably
shows the future of the nation is bleak if nothing drastic is done to curb this
menace. The recent setting up of the Presidential Advisory Committee on
Elimination of Drug Abuse [PACEDA] to boost the activities and efforts of other
Drug Related Agencies in tackling this menace bear eloquent testimonies to this
claim,” he noted. He therefore
commending the President Muhammadu Buhari led Federal Government and all arms of
Government working assiduously to eradicate this scourge from our society; The
Scout Association of Nigeria [TSAN] commend  The UN on this International Day noting that
the  theme for the year  – “health for justice, justice for health” Mr. Awunah,  enjoins  the over 3 million members of the Scout
association of Nigeria   to be on the watch and alert the command
accordingly should anyone has any information that can lead to the curtailing
of this menace and eventual eradication of Drug Abuse in our society. As part of its crusade
against the menace, the Chief Commissioner said that the association has launch
a campaign titled “Campaign Against Drug Abuse. ( CADA). The Campaign according
to Mr. Awunah, is targeted at Youths in Primary schools and Tertiary Institutions
who will be drawn from the 36 States and the Federal Capital Territory ( FCT)
for the commencement of the  campaign
which will take place in Abuja and replicated across the states and 774 Local
government in Nigeria. The event according to
the organizers is bill to attract members of 
the body from all over the world.