By Chukwuemeka Opara Abakaliki – Sen. Obinna Ogba, (PDP-Ebonyi Central) and some soccer fans in Enonyi have  advised the Super Falcons to ensure they bombard the Germans’ goal area with attacking football techniques to emerge the better side in their Saturday FIFA Women World Cup second round match. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Nigeria eventually qualified for the second round at the expense of Chile on goals difference to end a tortuous wait for qualification by the team and soccer fans. Ogba, the immediate past Senate Committee Chairman on Sports and Chairman, Ebonyi Football Association (FA), said that Falcons needed to be  ferocious in their attack against the European powerhouse and urged them to avoid defensive football. “Nigerians are happy that the team eventually qualified in spite of issues such as the officiating, which arose during its last group match against France. “The technical crew should be commended for the team’s progression so far and should adopt attacking tactics in the against the Germans. “The whole country is behind the team having been impressed with their regrouping after the first loss to Norway, to post commendable performances against South Korea and France,” he said. Supporting Ogba’s assertion, Ikenna Odo, a member of the Ebonyi FA reminded the Falcons that there would be no second chance at this stage of the competition. “The team should play resolutely as it did against France and should not overrate the Germans in spite of their pedigree in world football. “Its qualification has made the entire country happy and progression to the quarter-final final will definitely draw more attention to their exploits,” he said. Mr Charles Ifegwu, a Clergy, noted that the Falcons’ qualification was ordained by God and claimed that the team is destined for greatness in the competition. “People viewed the referee’s action in the match against France as a ploy to ensure Falcons’ elimination but God showed his might and favour on the team. “The team waited anxiously for three days to know whether it qualified for the second round and Nigerians should pray that it stays longer in the competition,” he said. Mrs Martha Ebom, a Caterer, however, urged the relevant authorities to lift the nation’s football above permutations or luck to qualify in competitions. “This is the second time this year that Nigeria will depend on luck to qualify as best losers as the Flying Eagles did so at the recent World Youth Championship in Poland. “The same FIFA’s new rule on penalties which worked against us in the match against  France was applied in the match between Argentina and Scotland and the eventual result favoured us,” he said.