Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Chief Mike Ozekhome, has listed tasks before President Muhammadu Buhari as he assumes second term in office following his swearing-in. Ozekhome in the document tagged “an interim blueprint of
governance for President Muhammadu Buhari upon being sworn in after an election
that is still being hotly challenged and contested at the tribunal” which was
made public on Tuesday gave steps on what the president must do before the
judgment of the Election Petition Tribunal. Ozekhome asked President Buhari to quickly take Nigeria out of
the social, economic and political doldrums that the APC government has sunk
it, adding that the president should be more nationalistic in his approach to
governance by being “less sectional, less partial, nepotic, cronyistic and
prependalistic.” “He should drop his stiff
garb of suffocating military imperiousness and jackbootism and know that he is
now supposed to be a Democrat, subject to due process of law with the attendant
democratic safeguards. “Buhari should allow Rule of Law to flourish, learn to obey
court orders and respect citizens’ cherished and inalienable fundamental human
rights. Buhari must as president of a whole nation, drop his 97 percent to 5
percent bellyaching mantra and endeavour to be less divisive and vindictive;
and treat all Nigerians equally and as one, whether they presumably voted for
him or not,” Ozekhome stated. He further asked the president to stop promoting the superiority
and sovereignty of his ethnic group over and above the other more than 350
ethnic groups in Nigeria and give democracy dividends to the Nigerian people
through the provision of adequate security as provided in Section 14 of the
1999 Constitution. Other things he demanded from the president include a robust
economy and infrastructural developments, adding that the president should
think outside the box of how to fight corruption. According to him, the performance of the president in the fight
against corruption has been “woeful, selective, exclusionary and
favouritism-based. Nigeria is more corrupt today than ever before according to
the latest Transparency International Corruption Perception Index. Where
corruption could be said to have been democratised by previous governments
before him, corruption under Buhari has been greatly privatised by a few
high-heeled cabalistic elements.” He explained that “corruption money unlike before now, no longer
circulate or sip down to the common people. It has been hijacked, privatised
and held down by the jugular by few elements at the precincts and corridors of
temporary power.” He concluded by asking the president to dust up the over 600 groundbreaking recommendations of the 2014 National Conference scripted by 491 delegates from across Nigeria and implement them, adding that “some of the most important amongst them is the vexed but overdue issue of devolution of powers and restructuring of the non-working Nigerian contraptions, to become a true fiscal and federal system of government. Culled from Tribune