Abuja CBD Rotary Club has inducted the publisher of Sundiata Post, Max Amuchie and three other professionals. The event, which took place on Friday at Grand Mirage Hotel, Area 11, Abuja was also attended by friends and families of the newly inducted members and other Rotarians. Joining Max Amuchie as newly inducted members were Elder Charles Dele Adeola, the CEO of Grand Mirage Hotel; Bamidele Ibitoye, a car dealer and Karls Tsokar Aondoaver, a media executive with the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). According to the Evelyn Onyilo, Assistant Governor, District 9125, who represented the District Governor, Elvis Chukwu, the new members actually registered with the club several months earlier and had been very active since then, but that the Friday event was the official induction of the four new members, who would now enjoy full membership rights. According to the Assistant Governor, the new members were inducted because of their work and contribution to societal growth in general. Max Amuchie, who was the first to be inducted, was sponsored by the club’s Charter President, Salome Garba. The Charter President noted Amuchie’s  special dedication and commitment since joining the club, saying the Sundiata Post publisher is a treasured member of the club. He was accompanied to the event by his wife, Mrs. Vivian Amuchie. At the ceremony, a member of the club, Ene Onyilo, read the Object of Rotary, while the Secretary of the club, Gloria Efere, read the 4 Way Test. While speaking at the event, the president of the club, Martins Odeh stated that the Rotary mandate is to do good and render humanitarian services. ‘’Our club is one of the 33,000 clubs in over 100 countries of the world. We belong to District 9125 covering about 22 states of the federation. “We were set up carry out the mandate of Rotary International and what we have done today is to bring new members into our midst to enable us perform better in this huge humanitarian task. The four members joining us today have taken our membership to 25, which is very significant because Rotary International delists clubs that are not able to keep up with membership. So if you go below 10, it becomes a danger line. So we try to continue to increase our membership. We are hoping that in the next tenure of 2019/2020 we will go up to 40. ‘’The newly inducted members are happy to join us, and we have made them understand how important it is to have the Rotary knowledge. It is that knowledge that will enable them unveil themselves for service,’’ he said. Martins Odeh also used the opportunity to call on many more Nigerians to join the club. ‘’Many Nigerians don’t like to join humanitarian organisations, but I don’t know why. So I’m using this opportunity to call on more Nigerians to see Rotary as an avenue to touch human lives. Rotary has a template that teaches quality leadership and promote social infrastructural development.’’ The Rotary Club of Abuja CBD me into existence three years ago and became chartered on November 26, 2016 any is fast rising in membership. The club admits new members from time to time to increase club’s usefulness and advance their work and service to humanity. Members will, among others things, have the privilege of meeting and working with other members worldwide under a classless and egalitarian atmosphere. Rotary is a club of business and professional leaders.