By Chiazo Ogbolu Lagos – To reward,  inspire and promote social network for secondary school leavers, J.Vanni Global, an event producer, has created the first Nigeria Prom Concert tagged Afroprom. The Lead Project Manager, Mrs Mobola Abiru, made the disclosure at a media briefing on Tuesday in Lagos. According to her, the Afroprom concert  was conceived to give Nigerian students an opportunity to experience prom while celebrating, networking and partying with Nigerians top-rated celebrities. “We created Afroprom concert for high school graduates between the ages of 14 to 18, with an eye of getting these teens to celebrate a remarkable achievement at a crucial age of their lives. “Prom is not new to them, they see it happen everywhere else but not in Nigeria; this spurred us to create an avenue that will welcome them into adult life. “It is also at this age that they should be rewarded for their hardwork, integrated with inspirations and given all the values they will need to grow in life,” she said. Abiru added that renowned mediapreneur, Debola Williams, and superstar musician, politicians and others  would be in attendance to inspire and educate the students on the next step after school, by sharing authentic stories of their rise to the top. She said that guests would be treated to  breathtaking performances fit by Teni, Rema, Donflex and the Extigate team, Dream Catchers and others. According to her, other side attractions would include a shot at Afroprom King and Queen crowns. “There will be motivational speaker to inspire the students and a 3D class for them. “As regards security, the event centre will be adequately protected, the event time is from 12p.m to 6p.m. and a location will be given to parents that will want to accompany their children. “We have made contact with over 200 schools through social media, and we have ambassadors that are helping out with getting students aware of the event,” she said. She said that the event scheduled to hold on July 14 at Eko Convention Centre would be hosted by OAP Jimmy and would reward attendants with enticing giftssuch as an iPhone XR, PlayStation 4 and lots more. She advised interested persons to check events.nairabox.com for  details. (NAN)