By Aesha Lu Should i divorce my husband ? I love my husband and my 2 kids so much. I’ve been married with him for 8 yrs now. We both had our ups and downs as every relationships have. We’re both a student and working part-time jobs . He’s almost done with his masters degree in Political science and I’m in the middle of my dentistry education. Anyway 3 yrs ago we went on a 3 month family vacation in the Philippines. Everything was fun and cozy out there, we had such a great time. But one day while we were still there, my husband went to a “hookup bar” it’s a bar where all the girls who works there can flirt to the guests. My husband was there one evening and invited one girl to go out with him. He left around 8 that evening and came back at 11 in the morning. He told me he rented a cheap hotel room to crash since he was too drunk to drive (the place that we were staying in is in the country side very far from the city). He assured me that he was alone and that he just needed a place to sleep. And i believed him. But one day later a girl who works as a waitress at the bar told her cousin who i know, that my husband left with one girl that night. Took her to different bars and then went to a motel. I confronted my husband and he tried to lie at first. He said that he rented a hotel room because he just really needed to crash because he was so wasted to drive. And everything was all innocent. But after i told him that i know everything, he finally admitted to bringing the hooker to the motel and had sex with her . It was one of the darkest times in our marriage. I was so close to divorcing him, but i chose to give him a chance. Now fast forward to 3 yrs later. We came back to Denmark. Everything is good back to our routine lives, status quo, we moved to a new house, kids going to school, we both our thriving in our part-time jobs and school. He’s amazing with the kids and household chores. We are comfortable, we don’t have everything we want but we have everything we need and Our kids our beautiful and healthy . 4 months ago my husband went to visit his friend. He said he’s going to sleep at his friends place and will be home the next day (because we live 80 km away from his friends house) i was totally okay with it. He was txting me through the night saying that they are just at his friends apartment drinking wine and watching sports and that they will sleep early before midnight. He came home at 11 am the next day with a hang-over. I was okay with everything until i found out that he wasn’t with his friend whole evening that night and i found out that he booked a hotel too. I confronted him about it and he said that he lied about the hotel because he didn’t want me to get worried about spending money and that he was with his other friend that i never met. But he’s stories doesn’t add up. I have this gut feeling that he cheated on me again but he assured me that he didn’t . All i could see is a pattern from what he did 3 yrs ago. My husband keeps telling me that he didn’t cheat , but i couldn’t help to compare the similarities of what he did 3 yrs ago. Should i trust him? Or should i divorce him? Source: Quora