By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former Aviation Minister, Femi Fani-Kayode has said that he will be forced to move the motion for “Oduduwa’s independence” from Nigerian colonial rule if the Fulanisation and Islamisation agenda continues. Fani-Kayode
who reminded that it was his father who successfully moved the motion for
Nigeria’s independence from British colonial rule in August 2nd 1958,
gave the warning when he took to his twitter handle @realFFK and said: “On August 2nd 1958 my
father, Chief Remi Fani-Kayode, successfully moved the motion for Nigeria’s
independence from British colonial rule. If the Fulanisation and Islamisation
agenda continues I shall move the motion for Oduduwa’s independence from
Nigerian colonial rule”. Recall that
the former President Olusegun Obasanjo had on May 18, while
delivering a paper titled: ‘Mobilising Nigeria’s Human and Natural Resources
for National Development and Stability’ at the second session of the seventh
Synod of the Anglican Communion, Oleh Diocese, in the Isoko South Local
Government Area of Delta State,lamented the deadly activities of Boko Haram and
Fulani herdsmen in the country, noting that it was obvious that they have an
agenda to ‘Fulanise’ Nigeria and ‘Islamamise’ Africa. Obasanjo
stated that the challenges of Boko Haram and herdsmen have grown beyond what
Nigeria alone can tackle following the groups’ collaboration with the Islamic
State West African Province fighters. According
to Obasanjo, “It is no longer an issue of a lack of education and employment
for our youths in Nigeria which it began as, it is now West African
Fulanisation, African islamisation and global organised crimes of human
trafficking, money laundering, drug trafficking, gun trafficking, illegal
mining and regime change,” he said. He
warned that: ‘‘Every issue of insecurity must be taken seriously at all levels
and addressed at once without favouritism or cuddling. Both Boko Haram and
herdsmen acts of violence were not treated as they should at the beginning. “They
have both incubated and developed beyond what Nigeria can handle alone. They
are now combined and internationalised with ISIS in control. “We
could have dealt with both earlier and nip them in the bud, but Boko Haram boys
were seen as rascals not requiring any serious attention in administering
holistic measures of stick and carrot. And when we woke up to the reality, it
was turned to industry for all and sundry to supply materials and equipment
that were already outdated and that were not fit for active military purpose. “Soldiers
were poorly trained for the unusual mission, poorly equipped, poorly motivated,
poorly led and made to engage in propaganda rather than achieving results.
Intelligence was poor and governments embarked on games of denials while paying
ransoms which strengthened the insurgents and yet governments denied payment of
ransoms. Today, the security issue has gone beyond the wit and capacity of
Nigerian government or even West African governments.” 