By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, on Tuesday lived up to his ‘wake and see’ toga as residents woke up to hear that the much awaited 7th Assembly has been inaugurated. Recall that Sundiata Post had reported at about midnight that Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki was about carrying out midnight inauguration of Edo state House of Assembly. Hon Frank Okiye (Esan North East 1) was elected Speaker while Hon. Yekini Idiaye of Akoko Edo Constituency 11 was elected Deputy Speaker. Government officials, in their various social media platforms, said the Assembly was inaugurated at 3pm on Monday while opponents claimed it was done at 12 midnight. Reports said Clerk of the Edo House of Assembly, Alhaji Audu Yahaya Omogbai, ushered the members-elect into the chamber and read out the letter of proclamation transmitted to the office of the clerk by Governor Obaseki. After his election, Speaker Okiye thanked all present for the confidence reposed in him and promised to work for the people of Edo State. Okiye urged all lawmakers who have not satisfied the process of swearing-in, including completion of the asset declaration form. According to him: “It is with the deepest sense of humility that I receive this call to serve the people and I assure that I will do all in my power to serve their best interest at all times. “I congratulate my colleagues and fellow members who are today inaugurated and urge other members-elect who are yet to meet up with the requirements for inauguration to do so without delay so they can join this honorable house in the discharge of its responsibilities.” Sitting was adjourned till July 17, 2019. Among members present at the inauguration were Hon. Nosa Okunbor; Hon. Henry Okuarobo; Hon. Uyi Ekhosuehi; Hon. Marcus Onobun; Hon. Ephraim Anehbosele; Hon. Roland Asoro; Hon. Eric Okaka; Hon Frank Okiye and Hon Yekini It was learnt that a team of lawyers were assembled to study the implication  before three lawmakers were invited for a meeting and in the process, their phones collected from them after which they were driven to the House of Assembly and then sworn in by the Ckerk. There was heavy security presence around the assembly premises. 