By Nathan Nwakamm Yenagoa – The Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), on Sunday concluded  training for 500 Niger Delta  women on innovative skills and rudiments of self sustainance in Yenagoa, Bayelsa. The training was in order to carter for individual needs of participants and of their families. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that NDDC conducted the capacity building programme for women from Niger Delta states in collaboration with the ‘Fathers’ Heart Foundation’ . The workshop was part of the commission’s programme to mark the 2019 International Women’s Day, which had as its theme: “Balance for Better” aimed at advancing gender equality in women. Speaking during the conference, a resource person, Mrs Tobore Olumoye, urged women to keep updating themselves with modern technologies in order to be relevant in  society. Olumoye, who is the President of Sterling Toast Master Club, said the conference was  focused  on innovative ways in which women could  close the gender gap and add value to tasks before them to earn equality at the work place and business settings. “As you know, innovation and technology provide unprecedented opportunities, yet trends indicate a growing gender divide and women are under represented in the field of science, technology, engineering, mathematics and design. “This prevents them from developing and influencing gender responsive innovations to achieve transformative gains for  society. “When women upgrade themselves with advanced knowledge, it makes them more relevant and affords them the opportunity to live the legacy of a fulfilled life and become assets not only to society but to themselves,” Olumoye said: Mrs Ibelema Green, in her lecture, urged women to upgrade their knowledge and follow up with innovations and skills to sustain themselves in the challenging economy. Green listed practical steps on how women could  upgrade themselves in an ever changing world through learning new things, unlearning and relearning so that they could  discover what they needed to offer the world. She explained that “life is a balance between holding on and letting go and knowing when to do either of the two” while pointing out that every woman thought  differently with unique skills and individual strengths. According to her, women must be lifelong learners although unlearning is quite difficult especially in trying to drop bad habits that do not yield good results. Green enjoined participants to try to be themselves  and stop seeking approval of others as it was a mark of low self esteem. Green emphasised that “the woman you are becoming will cost you. It will cost you people, relationships, spaces and material things. Choose her over everything.”