By Segun Giwa Ikare Akoko (Ondo State) – The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in Ondo State on Thursday urged public spirited Nigerians and other stakeholders to help develop infrastructure at its permanent orientation camp in Ikare Akoko. Mrs Grace Akpabio, the Coordinator of the NYSC in the state, made the appeal at Ikare-Akoko in her address of welcome at the swearing in ceremony of the Batch ‘B’ (Stream 1) corps members deployed to the state. Akpabio said any project initiated by such individual or organisation would be named after them as promised. She also disclosed that 1, 993 corps members had been registered for the orientation course, with 1,020 of them males and 973 females. She said:”My children in the national service, let me inform you that the orientation course has been packaged to, among other things, introduce you to the objectives and programmes of the scheme,as well as acquaint you with your new sociocultural environment as a corps members. “While on camp, you will be introduced to series of extra- curricular camp activities that are exciting, rewarding and memorable. ” These include lecture on tradition and culture of the Yoruba’s, leadership lectures, entrepreneurial trainings, sports and so on.” Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, in his remarks, urged the corps members to give their best to Nigeria through the scheme. Akeredolu, who was represented by the Commissioner for Youth and Sports Development, Mr Saka Yusuf-Ogunleye, urged the corps members to develop the state through individual and ,collective sacrifice. “Now that you have been mobilised and deployed to Ondo State, I want you to discard whatever myths or misconceptions you may have been fed with about the people of the southwest in general and Ondo State in particular. “I am privileged by my status to inform you that Yoruba people are peace loving, industrious, accommodating and above all God-fearing. You will enjoy every bit of your state with them,” he said. Akeredolu added that security and welfare of corps members would continue to be of paramount importance to his administration. He said his government would continue to improve on developmental projects and infrastructure that would encourage those who might want to stay and live in the state at the end of the service year. (NAN)