Abuja (Sundiata Post) – United Nations Trust Fund for Human
Security (UNTFHS) has visited the country and met with key stakeholders to
discuss the protracted conflict affecting numerous communities, particularly in
Benue and Nasarawa states as part of its efforts to mitigate the
herdsmen-farmers crisis in some parts of Nigeria. The UN said it
had discovered that a piecemeal approach will not address the prevalent cycle
of violence and multi-faceted nature of the herder-farmer conflict, instead a
comprehensive and integrated approach that addresses the root causes of the
conflict while reducing the vulnerability of communities to protection risks is
required. Disclosing this on Friday in a statement signed by its spokesman, Lucky
Musonda, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP),said during the mission,
the UNTFHS led by Ms. Mehrnaz Mostafavi facilitated a training workshop aimed
at equipping implementing partners with the required knowledge and practical
skills to apply the human security approach within the context of the country’s
middle-belt. The workshop held under the theme “Applying the Human Security
Approach to Operationalize the Humanitarian-Development-Peace Nexus in
Nigeria”. “Participants
at the workshop appreciated the important role guaranteed human security plays
in fostering socioeconomic development in the country. “The visiting
team shared insights into the significance of the human security approach as a
framework for policy-making in complex development challenges,” the statement
added. While in
Makurdi, Benue State capital, the team met with representatives of civil
society organizations, farmers associations, local and state government
representatives, community elders, traditional leaders, and representatives of
local and international non-governmental organizations with whom they exchanged
information on key elements of the human security approach which could be
employed in promoting dialogue and peaceful resolution of conflicts, especially
between the herdsmen and farmers in the region. The team later
engaged in a policy dialogue in Abuja, organized by UNDP, in collaboration with
UNHCR and FAO. The event,
dubbed “Transitioning from humanitarian relief to long-term development:
Addressing the herdsmen-farmers conflict in Nigeria” brought together senior UN
representatives in the country, experts from national and local governments,
civil society organizations, and the private sector, and explored several
policy options that could be adopted in the quest to end the conflict. Key among the
recommendations was the advocacy for comprehensive solutions, preventive and mitigating
measures, which requires all key stakeholders are integrated into policy
planning and response frameworks thereby strengthening long term resilience and
safeguarding sustainable development. The Policy
dialogue also served as a platform to enhance multi-stakeholder partnerships to
support implementation of the National Livestock Transformation Plan. “The Human
security approach recognizes the full array of challenges that can both propel
the devastating force of a crisis and undercut prospects for sustainable peace
and development. “This essential
understanding presents opportunities to complement immediate humanitarian
efforts, while helping to shape long-term solutions that put people on the path
to towards inclusive and sustainable development.” UN Resident Coordinator in
Nigeria, Edward Kallon said in his opening statement at the event in Abuja. Chief of the
United Nations Human Security Unit, who is also leading the team, Ms. Mehrnaz
Mostafavi noted that the challenges to human security of both farmers and
herders and activities are structured around addressing the numerous risks to
safeguard livelihoods and promote peace”.