I was in official visit to Mumbai and my room was booked by my organization. I was staying in 4star local hotel. It was my second night at the hotel and i guess it was 10 o’clock at night and i was watching tv, when the hotel phone rang, I picked up the phone. Me: “Hello?” Receptionist, in her indian accent: “This is the reception, your order is here.” Me: “…say what now?” Receptionist: “Your delivery is here.” What do you mean by this? I replied her. Receptionist: “Sir, are you there in your room? I am sending her up to your room.” Me: “…um, okay…” I hang up the phone, turned to my self and thought that i didn’t ordered any thing. So why she is sending me. Anyway, i told to my self to let’s check it. I got curious and excited about who this person could be. Was it a prank? Then there is a knock on the door, and I got to open it. As i opened the door, there was a young lady, perhaps in her late 20s, she was wearing white button down shirt (with two buttons unbuttoned) with black fitted jeans, having light makeup and smiling at me. She first looked at me and forward her hand for hand shake, I looked at her and I begin to smile and shaked her hand too. I was starting to realize the situation, and I trying really hard to compose myself. She then asked me for permission to enter in to the room. I replied with word “Yes”. She then started conversation to make me comfortable. And in couple of minutes i started getting interest in her. I then offered her cold drink, however, she demanded for visky. And then she had it upon her request. In next couple of minutes i started touching her and we end up doing safe sex. She got whole night with me in my bed and we enjoyed every moment that we spend with each other. She looked very experience and know the ways how to make other person happy. At morning, we got together in washroom and had bath too. I was so excited that i was unhappy for her departure. On returned i gave her 5,000 and she thanked me. We exchanged our contact numbers. At last moment, i asked her that who told her to meet me. She gave me a cute smile and replied that this service is compliment in this hotel. Still i am in contact with her and often book a room too. Source: Quora