Protocols It is with a deep sense of professional commitment that I
address you all on this occasion which marks the formal deployment of the K9
assets of the Nigeria Police to all our railway stations across the country.
This initiative is within the context of Operation Puff Adder and it is planned
to compliment the existing security measures emplaced for the security and
safety of passengers and critical infrastructure of the Nigeria Railway
Corporation across the country. The deployment of special breed and exceptionally-trained police
dogs for security duties is as old as human civilization. Hence, their
utilization in combating crimes and sundry internal security threats in the 21st century
cannot be over emphasized. Indeed, K9 are known to possess extra-ordinary
capacity for detection of Improvised Explosives Devices (IEDs), narcotics and
other illicit drugs, firearms and other prohibited items which criminals
usually engage for the perfection of their criminal activities. The deployment
of Police dogs is therefore meant for detection or prevention crimes along the
railway corridors. Their brief shall be for patrols, surveillance, detection
and apprehension of felons in and around railway facilities. . The Nigeria Police prides itself as having one of the most
equipped, experienced, highly-trained, and functional K9 Section. They also
have commendable antecedent of successful anti-crime, crowd control and civil
disorder management operations in the country. Indeed, it is on record that the
Nigeria Police Force Animal Branch has been instrumental to the training and
development of similar branches for other security agencies in the country. By this event today, our plan is to maximize our unique K9
strength to complement other sections that have been deployed as part of the
broad policing architecture which we recently emplaced towards addressing our
internal security challenges. It will be recalled that prior to this time,
about one thousand additional police personnel were deployed to the Nigeria
Police railway Command. This unprecedented deployment was designed to address
the manpower gap of the Command and reposition them to address vulnerabilities,
projected threats, and security challenges which the increasing human traffic
and expanding assets of the Nigeria Railway Corporation may present. Just this morning, I watched the ‘Sunrise Daily’ Programme of
Channels Television which focused on security of railway passengers and I was
delighted to hear most of those interviewed confirming that indeed police
security deployment has been significantly enhanced both around the railway
facilities and in-coach. With today’s initiative, passengers, staff, and
indeed, all the citizens of this country can further be re-assured of their
security as they patronize the services of the Nigerian Railway Corporation. I can also assure that all the assets of the Police shall
continually be mobilized and deployed towards denying criminal elements of any
space to operate in any location in the country. We however, continually
solicit the cooperation of all. We encourage all citizens to embrace the
concept of ‘if you
see something, say something’. Indeed, our appeal now is ‘if you suspect something, say
something’. This is a civil obligation of all citizens and this is
the most potent weapon towards collectively winning the war against elements
bent on threatening our security. May I at this juncture, commend the
officers and men of the K9 Section of the Nigeria Police for their resolve and
commitment in ensuring that the maximum capabilities of these dogs are
harnessed for the safety of our country. Always be assured that your welfare
and that of your dogs will always be of priority to myself and the entire
management team as you join this operation today. As you have always been, I
expect you to be of good conduct and operate within strict professional ethics
as you proceed to the respective Railways stations across the country in
service of your Fatherland. I also wish to utilize this opportunity to commend all police
personnel currently on the Operation Puff Adder duty for their sacrifice,
loyalty, dedication to duty and professionalism which have so far aided the
Operation in achieving its goals of stabilizing the internal security order. I
am very proud of your achievements. I, however, charge you all to sustain the
tempo, noting that crime is a dynamic occurrence and even though we have
recorded tremendous successes, we cannot afford to lower our guards. I pray
that Allah (SWT) continues to protect you all as you commit to the sacred duty
of securing the citizens of our beloved nation. I thank you all for your attention.