Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Governor of Zamfara state, Muhammad Matawalle has approved the suspension of Emir of Maru, Alhaji Abubakar Cika Ibrahim and District Head of Kanoma Alhaji Yahaya Mohammed. The  suspensions which takes immediate effect was announced yesterday in a statement signed by the Director General, Press Affairs to the  Government House, Yusuf Idris. Their suspension, according to Idris, followed complaints from residents over their alleged involvement with bandits attacking communities in the area. Idris noted that the duo would remain suspended pending the outcome of an investigation panel, which will soon be set up by the state government. The Emir has, however, been directed to hand over his official vehicles and other government properties in his possession to the Senior District Head. The Kanoma district head is to hand over same to the most senior village head. The suspension confirmed the allegation of former Minister of Defence Lt.-Gen. Mansur Dan Ali over the involvement of some monarchs in banditry. Sixteen people were confirmed killed and 14 injured by suspected bandits in attacks in Kanoma community on Sallah day. Director General, Press Affairs to the Zamfara State Government House, confirmed the incident. However, the governor has paid a condolence visit to the community, saying he was aggrieved by the news of the attack. Matawalle assured the people of adequate security measures to end the armed banditry and other criminal activities. He said his administration would collaborate with well-meaning citizens to end the security challenges facing the state. He called on the locals to provide the government with accurate intelligence reports that would assist the security agencies  in apprehending  the criminals. The governor also prayed to God to reward the souls of those who lost their lives with Jannatul firdaus and give their families the fortitude to bear the loss. Matawalle also called on the bandits to surrender their arms and embrace peace before it is too late. Culled from The Nation