Nigerian businessman, Wale Jana who is very close friend of Pastor Abiodun Fatoyinbo of COZA, alleged to have raped Busola Dakolo, the wife of musician, Timi Dakolo has come out in defence of the pastor. See Video: COZA Pastor Biodun Fatoyimbo Forcefully Deflowered Me at 17 – Timi Dakolo’s Wife, Busola Wale disagreed with the Dakolos and claims women tend to get world emotional in order to score cheap points. According to him, the accusation is a form of a publicity stunt by Timi Dakolo to sell his upcoming records and affirmed they are always involved in conspiracy. Read what he said: I just watched @busoladakolo video I know the world gets emotional the moment a woman mentions that she was raped but if you will take a minute to think objectively; the oldest way a woman can try to destroy a man is to accuse him of rape. Any man is guilty of this offence in the eyes of the public until otherwise and if she has a little social status like the wife of a struggling musician like @timidakolo it makes it look credible. Why is she doing this? Timi and wife are a pawn in a conspiracy and also because it will help him sell some records which he desperately needs to sell, they will also trend for a while, she has already opened unbroken.ng an online platform to cash in on the drama just like @esewalter and then its over! I am a proud COZA member and @biodunfatoyinbo is my father and he has been a blessing to millions of people all over the world. This time there will be no silence and since you want war, you will have it. If @biodunfatoyinbo has been a blessing to you, its time to speak up, don’t keep quiet! @timidakolo and @busoladakolo are not saints, she was a choir member and Timi was a choir leader in church when she got pregnant with her first baby, Timi denied that they weren’t having an affair and then she got pregnant the second time and that was when the church forced them to get married. This chorister was sleeping with her choir master and was a baby mama with two kids before they got married. These are morally bankrupt people and all that talk in the video will not hold water under cross examination. Another thing that bothers me is why all the people troubling the body of christ @daddyfreeze @timidakolo @busoladakolo @chudeity all attend a particular church Timi and Busola have a LOT of skeletons and they both live in glass houses and they are busy throwing stones. Its time to shatter this house of cards these people have built, its time to deal with cyber bullying and vague social media allegations and this couple will be the scape goats.” See his post below: I just watched @busoladakolo video I know the world gets emotional the moment a woman mentions that she was raped but if you will take a minute to think objectively; the oldest way a woman can try to destroy a man is to accuse him of rape. Any man is guilty of this offence in the eyes of the public until otherwise and if she has a little social status like the wife of a struggling musician like @timidakolo it makes it look credible. Why is she doing this? Timi and wife are a pawn in a conspiracy and also because it will help him sell some records which he desperately needs to sell, they will also trend for a while, she has already opened unbroken.ng an online platform to cash in on the drama just like @esewalter and then its over! I am a proud COZA member and @biodunfatoyinbo is my father and he has been a blessing to millions of people all over the world. This time there will be no silence and since you want war, you will have it. If @biodunfatoyinbo has been a blessing to you, its time to speak up, don't keep quiet! @timidakolo and @busoladakolo are not saints, she was a choir member and Timi was a choir leader in church when she got pregnant with her first baby, Timi denied that they weren't having an affair and then she got pregnant the second time and that was when the church forced them to get married. This chorister was sleeping with her choir master and was a baby mama with two kids before they got married. These are morally bankrupt people and all that talk in the video will not hold water under cross examination. Another thing that bothers me is why all the people troubling the body of christ @daddyfreeze @timidakolo @busoladakolo @chudeity all attend a particular church Timi and Busola have a LOT of skeletons and they both live in glass houses and they are busy throwing stones. Its time to shatter this house of cards these people have built, its time to deal with cyber bullying and vague social media allegations and this couple will be the scape goats. A post shared by  Adewale Aladejana (@walejana) on Jun 28, 2019 at 2:54am PDT Source