By Chibuike NwabukoAbuja (Sundiata Post) – Group under the auspices of Confluence Rescue Mission (COREM), has urged the national leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to consider Vice Admiral Jibrin Usman (Rtd) to fly the flag of the party in the forthcoming gubernatorial election slated for November, 2019. The civil society and good governance advocacy group which is sympathetic to the All Progressives Congress (APC), informed that “Vice Admiral Jibrin Usman is APC’s best bet to repair the damaged image of the party and to lead Kogi State out of the quagmire of socioeconomic retrogression occasioned by the maladministration of Yahaya Bello. The Publicity Secretary of the group, Comrade Usman Seidu who made the appeal at a press conference in Lokoja on Sunday, also called on APC to take a critical look at the outcome of the KEEC screening as it is the voice of the people and a strong indication of their leaning. He stressed that the result of the screening is a clear statement to the fact that Vice Admiral Usman Jibrin is the preferred candidate of Kogi East for the forthcoming election. Comrade Usman stated that Vice Admiral Usman, given his competence, wealth of experience, knack for excellence and having scored the highest points out of over 40 guber aspirants screened by the Kogi East Elders Council committee, is the most qualified and ready to redeem our battered image as a state and to revive the comatose economy visited upon the people by the gross underperformance of the current government. The Vice Admiral, he said, is the best alternative to the incumbent governor whose tenure has been a disaster of epic proportions. The group further elaborates on the negative impacts the maladministration of Yahaya Bello has visited on the image of the APC in Kogi state. “Governor Yahaya has lost popularity in Kogi state due to his high handed style of governance and overall incompetence which has ruined the perception of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kogi state. “It is already a difficult task to change the perception of the people regarding the APC as occasioned by the unfortunate government of Yahaya Bello, it will be a disaster for the party to risk everything by handing him the ticked to run again. “Yahaya Bello, having realised the difficult battle ahead, is already making illicit maneuvers with some APC elements towards the primaries. He will fail woefully”. 