By Olivia Chen Well,I’m from China and I have been living in Kuala Lumpur for one and half years , the capital city of Malaysia . To be honest , after living in China for almost 23 years , I think living in Kuala Lumpur isn’t very bad. Here are some good sides of living in KL 2.More choices for consumers.You can find many imported products with affordable prices here. Especially from Australia and New Zealand. 3.Without language barrier.You can communicate with local people. Yeah, I have to admit that many Malaysians are language geniuses . Because they are not just able to communicate with you in English, but some of Chinese Malaysian , they can also talk to me in Cantonese, Hakka, mainland Chinese. So I don’t have any language barriers here. Every time I go to Japan or Korea, it’s hard to communicate with local people. Here are some bad sides of living in KL Suddenly heavy rain—this is the one I hate the most . The weather seems so good in the morning, but suddenly rain in the afternoon. Unfortunately you didn’t bring your umbrella and you wear nice shoes which aren’t waterproof. Some of you might think to take a taxi. Yeah, that’s a good idea. However, it takes forever to catch a taxi during rainy days. Inefficiency—It doesn’t matter if it’s in the government service department or private sector, they will tell you everything has a procedure. And that procedure is going to take as longer as you can imagine. For example, it took me 4 months to get my MRT car. Crime rate— Maybe some people don’t earn enough money for a living or lost their jobs.whatever the case, thieves in the city. Homeless—you can see the homeless are everywhere in KL. They sleep under the over bridge or inside of the ATM. So far , here are some good sides and bad sides that I had discovered during my stay in KL. Anyway, I still feel quite happy living here. If anyone is going to come to this city , I hope you can have a good time here and try to find as many interesting things as you can. Honestly , I think there is no prefect city to live but we can choose the best way to lives our life. Hope you guys can get some ideas of what living in KL is like from my answer. Source: Quora