By Toluwanimi Adeeko Abuja – An FCT High Court, Apo on Monday discharged a trader, Abdullahi Usman, charged with three counts of armed robbery Delivering his ruling in a no-case submission filed by Usman, Justice Sylvanus Oriji, held that the prosecution failed to adequately link the defendant to the robbery. Oriji also held that the prosecution’s failure to call Alaiyegbami or any of his family member, who were the victims of the robbery, as a witness was fatal to the case. “In light of the prosecution’s failure to reasonably establish a link between the defendant and the crime,I hereby uphold the no case submission of the defendant. “The defendant, Abdullahi Usman, is hereby discharged”. Usman was arraigned on March 14,2018 on three counts of criminal conspiracy and armed robbery. The prosecution counsel, Mr Patrick Ogele alleged that Usman alongside others, at large on March 24, 2017 broke into the house of one Fredrick Alaiyegbami and stole a Toyota Camry car, a plasma TV, three laptops , seven phones, wrist watches , jewelry and N100,000. Usman pleaded not guilty to the charge. To prove his case, Ogele, presented three witnesses. Cpl. Jonah Joseph, one of the prosecution witness, told the court that Usman was arrested after one Nokia phone belonging to Alaiyegbami was traced to him. He further informed the court that during interrogation, Usman confessed that he and some of his friends committed the robbery. Joseph explained to the court that after confessing, Usman signed the confessional statement prepared by him without coercion. The defence counsel, Chinedu Udora, however challenged the testimony and evidences given by the witnesses. Udora argued that the reported scene of crime is different from what is written on the confessional statement signed by the defendant . He also argued that there was no direct eye witness linking the defendant to the alleged offences. Udora filed an application for a no case submission since the the prosecution had failed to establish a solid case against the defendant.