 Shock By Bukola Adewumi Abuja -; Dr. Brown Ogbeifun, former President of the Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN), and Comrade Peter Esele, ex President, Trade Union Congress (TUC), have expressed shock over the death of Mr  Francis Johnson. The News Agency of Nigeria recalls that  Johnson died on Friday, May 31, at the National Hospital, Abuja, following an illness. Both labor leaders expressed the shock when they paid condolence visit to the family of the deceased  in Abuja on Tuesday. Ogbeifun, who also condoled with staffers of the association, said that they had lost a bridge builder, who understood the act of communication and believed in mediation in the conflict resolution. He said that the deceased was a respecter of people of all ages and at all times. He said that the deceased gave his life to the service of his country, stressing that Johnson touched a lot of lives in the country. “And to his family, especially his wife, we know that no one can console you the way God will console you. “The lord will be the best of husband to you,” he said. On his part, Esele said that the news of Johnson’s death was shocking, painful and sad He described the deceased as a peace-loving ambassador, who was given to dialogue. He said that the deceased always believed that there was a lot of avenues to be employed before embarking on strike. According to him, this is a huge loss to PENGASSAN in particular, and a loss to TUC in general, because union members know what he always had to offer. He said that the labour union would not neglect the deceased’s family, adding that all his children would be adequately taken care of. “We have plans for the children and his name will be immortalised. The family will never walk alone because we will always stand with our own, ” he said. The Acting President of PENGASSAN, comrade Frank Esanubi, said it had been a trying moment for the union since Johnson died. According to him, some people will die and nobody will remember them. “It is not a function of the time that a person spends on earth, but a function of value. “We shall miss him. We want to assure you that we shall be part of the family and by God’s help, we will do all we can for the family to support them. “We are only appealing to the wife to be strong,” he said. Until his death, Johnson was President of PENGASSAN and the third deputy president of TUC. Johnson was a labour leader of note, a Christian and a father.