Kogi’s Igala tribesmen in Nigeria say last week’s endorsement of Gov. Yahaya Bello for second-term by their traditional rulers is not a ‘true’ reflection of their wishes and aspirations. The incumbent Governor was reported to have bribed a team of traditional rulers on their way to the Nigerian Presidential villa, to have them anoint him before President Muhammadu Buhari. The Igala tribe however said, Wednesday in a Press statement that they are not happy with the “ongoing siege” on its Traditional Rulers. The Statement signed by the National Leader of the Ukomu Igala Organisation (UIO), Mr. Abdul Amade says President Buhari, the National Officers of the ruling All Progressives Congress and other Political Parties to race for the State’s Governorship seat in the November 2019 Polls. “Our people are tired of the extreme insecurity, hunger and pestilence in Kogi state,” the group said. “We call on President Muhammad Buhari, National Officers of the APC and other Political Parties to disregard all clandestine and deceptive moves by any individual or groups to misrepresent the feelings and yearnings of the good people of Kogi state.” The full text of the statement reads: PRESS STATEMENT IGALA PEOPLE REJECTS THE PURPORTED ENDORSEMENT OF GOV YAHAYA BELLO BY TRADITIONAL RULERS IN SO ROCK Arising from its emergency general meeting held in Jos, the Plateau state capital, the Ukomu Igala Organisation(UIO) in a swift reaction to the numerous calls from various Igala sons and daughters within and outside Nigeria over the evidently stage -managed visit of our Traditional Rulers from Kogi state to president Muhammad Buhari in an attempt to seek his support for the imposition of a particular candidate on the good people of Kogi state in the forth coming governorship election in November 2019, wish to state in clear and unambiguous terms, the followings: We call on President Muhammad Buhari, National Officers of the APC and other Political Parties to disregard all clandestine and deceptive moves by any individual or groups to misrepresent the feelings and yearnings of the good people of Kogi state by ensuring that only credible candidates with good track records should be allowed to fly their governorship Tickets in the forth coming governorship election in Kogi state. Indeed, our people are tired of the extreme insecurity, hunger and pestilence in Kogi state. Long Live the children of Ayegba Omidoko
Long live Kogi state indigenes and residents
Long live the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Signed: National Leader Rtd Comptroller Abdul Amade