Abuja (Sundiata Post) –  Onyebuchi
Ememanka, the new Chief Press Secretary to the Abia State Governor, Dr. Okezie
Ikpeazu, has criticized the Senator representing Abia North district, Chief
Orji Uzor Kalu, over his recent statement on Ndigbo. Recall that
Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, was quoted to have during a Thank You meeting with his
constituents held in his Igbere residence, quoted as saying that “Our people (South
East), did not support APC, we did not vote for the President and that is what
we are paying for, therefore, we (Igbos), are not entitled to anything when we
did not vote for APC.” Ememanka, while reacting in an interview with newsmen in Umuahia,
the Abia state capital, on Thursday, opined that Kalu’s statement was a clear
indictment that he (Kalu), did not win the 2019 senatorial election conducted
by the Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC), in Abia north
senatorial zone. His words, “It
is an unfortunate statement and an indictment on his own victory. The PDP is
challenging his victory in the tribunal. And, he has just indirectly admitted
he did not win that election. If he says that our people,(Ndigbo), did not vote
for APC, so, how did he(Kalu) emerg the winner of the February 23, 2019
senatorial election held in Abia North district? How did he emerge as Senator
of the Federal Republic of Nigeria? “It is an
unfortunate statement for a man who is in the senate, to have that kind of
parochial and narrow mindset. It is very sad, from a former governor who is
occupying an exalted seat in the senate now, even though; his senatorial
position is seriously under challenge. And we are hopeful that at the end of
the day, the judiciary will throw him (Kalu) out and install Senator Mao
Ohuabunwa, who we believed, won the election. ” I will advise
the former governor not to make unguarded statements. He should remember he’s a
statesman and a Senator, pending when he would be removed. He is a senator now,
he should make statements that will promote national unity, and not the one
that will widen the grievances that had bedeviled this country over the years”.