By Ibironke Ariyo Abuja, – The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) says it is partnering with the University of Abuja (UNIABUJA) to curb the menace of drugs among students. The Chairman, NDLEA Col. Muhammad Abdallah, made this disclosure at a sensitisation campaign on drug abuse at the university on Friday. Abdallah, who was represented by the Assistant Controller General Narcotics (ACGN) , Mr Baba Husseini, advised students to seek help from the agency on how to be free from drug addiction. Abdallah explained that the collaboration aims to successfully curtail the drug menace in the university and other institutions across the country. He said that the collaboration became necessary due to the rising number of cases of illegal consumption of prohibited substances, especially among students. The NDLEA chief gave an instance of some secondary school students, who openly confessed that they were addicted to drugs, adding that they had since been counselled. “Students, who are suffering from addiction should seek help urgently and not to keep quiet about it in their own interest. “Drug intake is dangerous and can affect the future if care is not taken. “We will partner with the school to ensure that every student involved in abusing drugs is free and also put a stop to other forms of social vices,” he said. Abdallah urged the students to focus attention more on their studies and shun drug abuse, saying that illicit drug intake would add nothing good to their lives. He, however, called on lecturers to give listening ears to students, who might be suffering from drug intake, adding that being patient with such students would help to get them out of drugs. Th Vice Chancellor, UNIABUJA, Prof. Michael  Adikwu, noted that many students had taken solace in the use of hard drugs. Represented by the Deputy Vice Chancellor (DVC) Administration and Planning, Prof. Clement Alawa, Adikwu implored students in Nigerian universities to desist from consumption of illicit drugs to enable them realise their future ambition. “I want to urge the students of UNIABUJA and every other Nigerian student to shun drug abuse to ensure that their future is safe. “It is a good thing to know that the agency has been working towards a drug free society by sensitising youths on drugs and its adverse effects. “We, as a school, are happy to partner with other stakeholders and combat drug abuse both in and outside the school and in other parts of the country,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that some NYSC members were present and also staged a play on the dangers of drug abuse. In his lecture on the dangers of illicit drugs among students, the Director of Narcotics, Mr Kayode Adeniyi said the dangers of drug abuse was immense and could cause colossal damage to the life of  abusers. Adeniyi noted that the NYSC drama group had demonstrated  how dangerous the illicit drugs could be to human health. “I have noticed that during examination period, students abuse various kinds of caffeine based stimulants such as kolanuts, tramadol and other opiums to keep them awake”. “Unfortunately, these drugs damage the brain and internal system of its addicts, thereby rendering such persons useless. “Drug use is an expensive decision that a human being would take. I urge you all to stay away from illegal drugs and study hard to become better persons in the future, ” he said. On his part, the President, Student Union Government (SUG) Mr Sulieman Rabiu, appreciated the agency for the sensitisation programme to help the students know the adverse effects of drug abuse. NAN reports that the campaign was to mark the international day against drug abuse and drug trafficking slated for June 26.