Earlier today, the internet was shattered by the news that Busola Dakolo had accused popular Nigerian pastor, Biodun Fatoyinbo of r*pe. See Video: COZA Pastor Biodun Fatoyimbo Forcefully Disvirgined Me at 17 – Timi Dakolo’s Wife, Busola Busola, who happens to be the wife of Nigerian singer, Timi Dakolo made the allegations during a video interview with media mogul, Chude Jideonwo. According to her, she was r*ped by the pastor when she was still a teenager and a member of his church. When her interview was released, Nigerians took to social media to attack the accused pastor, with many advising him to come out and confess his sins. In the same vein, a Nigerian actor, Akah Nnani, who is a member of the pastor Fatoyinbo’s COZA church, has reacted to the development and has won the hearts of many people with what he wrote on his Instagram page. He wrote: “I woke up to several missed calls, and text messages. My friends know my relationship with @cozaglobal. “Let me say this. COZA is my church. I love my pastor… But rape, is a serious issue. My stomach churns as I write this. I spoke with @timidakolo a week ago and tried to understand why he had taken a stance against my pastor. I had just come back from honeymoon when all my friends sent me his attacks to my pastor a few weeks ago. “I sought to understand, not to attack. I was under so much turmoil too because this is my church, my pastor, and I cannot go around like nothing is happening and the church isn’t addressing anything or re-assuring the members. “We must not see evil and cover it. We must not see evil and turn the other way. You all know me. I attack and speak out against corrupt political leaders every time. Well, this has hit home. Our leaders and our fathers must be held accountable. And they must deem us worthy to be answerable to. If we cannot clean in the church, forget it. We cannot clean the country. I am tired of hearing so much, so much rubbish about my church and leadership over the years especially cos of the industry I belong to, nothing passes our ears behind the scene. “My pastor @biodunfatoyinbo has to say something this time. If the rest of the church does not need it, I need it. For my sake, sir… Speak on this. I stand with @busoladakolo as she has spoken her truth. I stand with the body of Christ also. I ask that my pastor come out and speak his own truth. “I am praying for the church. Please let us pray for both the Dakolo and the Fatoyinbo families. (wife and kids). In the end, if we need to, let us scatter the place… Then the truth will stand up.” Source