By Habibu Harisu Sokoto – The National Emegency Management Agency (NEMA) in collaboration with National Food Security Council on Wednesday distributed farming inputs to 246 flood victims in Goronyo Local Government area of Sokoto State. Presenting the items to the State Government, NEMA Head of Operation, Sokoto Zonal office, Mr Kofowola Soleye, said 567 victims effected by the disaster in 2018 were expected to benefit from the gesture in Goronyo council area. Soleye said the present beneficiaries were those screened and enumerated so far while others would get their share of the gesture after the processes. He explained that the effort was to cushion the victims’ hardships and ensure that they return to thier respective farms since the 2019 cropping season has begun. He expressed the Federal Government’s committment to provide more succuor to the victims and prayed against future occurence. Responding, Gov. Aminu Tambuwal, who was represented by Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Sa’idu Umar, commended the Federal Government for the gesture and urged the beneficiaries to make judicious use of the items in thier farms. Tambuwal said the support would surely complement state government efforts in addition to assisting farmers to engage in farming activities toward achieving food security. According to him, the state government had commenced the sales of 500 trucks of subsidized fertiliser to farmers across the state for 2019 cropping session. He cautioned beneficiaries against selling the commodity in the open markets which would defeat the government intention. Speaking on behalf of beneficiaries, Alhaji Muhammadu Idris, expressed appreciation over the gesture and promised increased investment into farming activities, noting that they were devastated when the incident occured. Idris said with the present support continuous farming for substistence and commercial purposes was guanteed. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that items distributed include rice, maize and corn seedlings fertilizer, sprayers, herbicites and insecticites. (NAN)