By Eric Long Here is a picture of Central Park, one of the most iconic, if not themost iconic park in all of America: What do you notice right away? Is it all the lush green that sticks out (in a very good way)? Or is it how perfectly rectangular the park looks? What about the ponds in the upper right? Or, more realistically, is it the fact that you notice massive skyscrapers lining the edge of the park to suffocation? Or the faint image of haze that reduces your vision to just the island itself (notice how blurry everything is across the river)? What you are seeing is a peaceful, undeveloped park in the very heart of the gears of industry, business, and the American dream. That made me wonder, how much is the land of Central Park worth? Looking over at this question, the answers range but it seems safe to say that it’s worth billions. Nope, not just a few billions, but hundreds of billions. Like 100–200 billion. And yes, that is billion with a ‘B’! So what’s the point? The fact of the matter is that all land has its value by desirability factor. Theoretically, it has no value whatsoever if no one wants it (hence why the government was giving land away to help migrate people out west). On top of that, land requires development to be of any future value to the less ambitious. Central Park is just a large piece of land in one of the most coveted real-estate locations in the world. It is minimally developed (I would hope so — it’s a park) and has a massive, huge, gigantic valuation. You won’t get that lucky with land in general. Unless you hold onto vacant land for years and years and generations and generations, hoping for the area around you to develop to increase the value of the land. If you are willing to wait a long time, then land is a decent investment. Most people can’t wait that long and tie up that much of their equity in a non-income generating plot. With all that said, properties come with land. But they are developed already. They can produce income. They don’t require long periods of income loss. Sorry for the anti-climatic answer, but it boils down to, as most questions with investing, What is your goal and what are you comfortable with? If you have a long-term outlook and enough cash that you’re okay with it being tied up for years, then land investing may be worth it. For the other 99%, investing in properties is a much better and safer route of real estate investing. Source: Quora