According to Concise News, Ned Nwoko, who was stripped of his certificate of return as Senator-elect to represent Delta North senatorial district at the 9th Senate, has suffered another blow. The politician and husband to Nollywood’s latest hottie has been denied NASS accreditation by the management of the National Assembly. Then denial which occurred on Sunday, 9th June 2019, follows the current battle between him and Peter Nwaobosh in court to determine the authentic Senator-elect to represent Delta North senatorial district at the 9th Senate. If you recall, Ned Nwoko who was declared a winner by a High Court, got a disappointing blow after the Appeal Court upturned the judgement and returned Nwaoboshi as the Senator-elect. However, ahead of Tuesday’s inauguration ceremony, Nwoko was the first and earliest caller at the National Assembly complex on Sunday for documentation. Sadly, Ned Nwoko was turned down by the Clerk to the National Assembly, Mohammed Sani-Omolori. Omolori, who stopped Nwoko at the ‘White House’ lobby, opposite Hearing Room 1, venue for the accreditation of elected lawmakers to inform him that he will not be accredited because of unsettled electoral dispute in his Delta North senatorial district. While Ned Nwoko continues to fight for a seat in the Senate, many Nigerians have linked his debacles to his union with the young Nollywood actress, Regina Daniels. According to them, Regina Daniels has allegedly brought misfortune to him and marrying her was a wrong choice. Apart from his political challenge at the moment, Regina Daniels mother, Rita Daniels was said to have been in involved in a domestic accident while preparing for her daughter’s traditional wedding. Her brother has also been a regular customer of the Nigerian police force as a recent video of his arrest showed that he had been involved with the police 4 times in a row as revealed by the angry mother. For what’s it worth, the politician has gained more popularity for the past few months since his involvement with Regina Daniels. Not that we assume her to be a tool used for achieving such, we hope the family fixes whatever challenges they may be experiencing at the moment and we hope good comes out of the whole political drama, win or lose. Source