By Awayi Kuje Nasarawa (Nasarawa State) – The Justice Development and Peace Commission (JDPC),  established by the Catholic Church, has  spent N3. 9 million to empower vulnerable women, caregivers and provide social infrastructure in Nasarawa Local Government Area of Nasarawa state. The Coordinator of the organisation in the  Catholic Diocese of Lafia,  Rev. Fr. Matthew Ofoku, disclosed this to newsmen on Saturday at the Nasarawa Local Government Area secretariat. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the intervention was in collaboration with the Institute of Human Virology Nigeria (IHVN). Ofoku said the commission had empowered 177 women and caregivers in the area with N10,000 cash each , in order to improve their standard of living. He added  that the organisation  also had donated 410 chairs to some primary and secondary schools in the state to improve the standard of education in the area. “We have also embarked on renovation of classrooms and toilet facilities. “This is to improve the standard of living of women, that of their family members and their health status,’’ he said. Ofoku said the the  gesture was part of the organisation’s deliberate humanitarian responsibility to improve on the lives of women as well as  the standard of education, for societal development. According to him, the Catholic Diocese of Lafia always extends  its responsibility beyond spiritual reawakening, hence,  the need to initiate people-oriented programmes that would put smiles on the faces of the vulnerable, irrespective of religious affiliations. The coordinator who also described education as the  route to escape from poverty, added tthat any educated person could move to places beyond his or her local environment. He said that was why  social infrastructure  in  education and the society should be put in place by both the  government and corporate organisations. Ofoku reaffirmed the organisation’s commitment to building projects and programmes that would have direct bearing on the lives of Nigerians, especially,  vulnerable women and children. The clergy called on Nigerians to live exemplary lives worthy of emulation in the interest of peace and development. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that women from  Ara, Gunki, Kurudu, Laminga, Loko, Mararaba Udege, Marmara, Ogapa, Onda, Tammah, Udege kasa and Udege Mbeki communities  benefitted from the empowerment. The schools that benefited from the gesture include:  the  Government Secondary School (GSS), Mararaba Udege, GSS Marmara, GSS Kurudu and Tammah Primary School and LGEA Tulluwa. Others are the Central Primary School in  Nasarawa, LGEA Eyenu, LGEA Marmara and Kofara Kudu Primary School. (NAN)