Are you happy with your life after getting married? My answer is a big NO. I met my wife where I was working previously. She came for an interview and due to some policy company denied to offer any job. She asked for help and told me that her mother is heart patient, her father is not alive, have younger bother who is studying and she doesn’t have job because in her previous job she was fired. It took one week and I searched a good paying job in IBM for her. She was happy and thanked a lot. After one month she again asked for help to obtain a passport because police didn’t approve her verification. After few months we started dating, and finally we talked to our parents about each other and marriage. Now the real trouble started from here, on the day of marriage she told me that her father is alive and living separate from her mother for last 10 years. My parents sense some real trap but due to my happiness they agreed. After marriage when she came my home she was really shocked and told me that she didn’t imagine that I am from middle class family. After 15 days she started quarrel and took a room on rent in gurgaon. She took all the jewellery (in my marriage I got one gold chain and marriage was done in one small Temple in gurgaon). She deposited all the jewellery in her bank. she abused my parents and me and created every possible issue. I feel I am trapped and I want to break free. But I know I will never be able to, so I will live with it. I feel that I married a psychopath, my wife is a narcissistic. She wants everything to be her way. She has never ever supported me emotionally and she has cultivated feelings of animosity towards my family. My daughter born after one year and that was best day of my life, meanwhile my mother in law and brother in law came to stay with us. I did everything for them, my mother in law had heart surgery and I supported her when no other relatives did. Her mother is exactly the same and I feel that her mom destroyed her dad’s life in a similar manner. My wife has many male friends with whom she carries out emotional affairs. In 2016 I left my home stayed with parents for few month and when I returned home I have secretly checked my wife phone. She shared her semi nude photos with her friends, those photos were devastating. I have read details of her alone time with these guys and I was heartbroken to say the least. She has gone at lengths to send me away while she secretly dated with some of these guys. Upon confronting she defended saying that, I was orthodox like my parents and I had to be more liberal to understand this “modern” behavior. She spent one night with one of these guy. That person in Indian Navy. She misbehaves with me nearly twice every week. On multiple occasions she has abused me. I keep on trying my level best to patch things up but she just can’t be contained with love. In Nov 2018 while sitting in washroom she was talking to someone when I show some objection she started crying and her mother supported her. After one moth I went to pick her from office she denied and I saw her in a car with a guy and when I call her she switched off her phone. I called up her mother but she didn’t supported and made comments on my behavior. I. Dec 18 she filled 498a case and since the I am struggling every day with women cell and lawyer. She is a master manipulator and can easily turn scales in her favor with a snap. My friends saw her smoking with some guys, saw her doing some physical activities in parking area. She goes to an apartment with one of her colleague. She has given application to my daughter school so that I don’t meet my daughter. Not a pretty picture, right? People talk about KARMA and GOD. But to be honest I don’t trust anyone now. Don’t know what my destiny. Wanted to settle in Canada but due to FIR I can’t apply for Visa. Thanks for reading my story…. Written by Anonymous. Source: Quora