Abuja (Sundiata Post) – THE Abia Director of the National Orientation Agency (NOA), Mrs Ngozi Okechukwu, and other stakeholders have called on Nigerians to urgently reverse the negative trend of shunning patronage of locally produced goods.  Okechukwu said this on Monday in Aba during a sensitisation campaign on Made-in-Nigeria goods, organised by the Aba Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (ACCIMA). She said lack of patronage had resulted in closure of industries, high unemployment rate, capital flight and dwindling gross domestic product, all which combined to cripple the national economy. The NOA Director added that there was the need to sustain a national campaign for sensitisation and re-orientation of Nigerians to ensure attitudinal changes, toward locally made products. She explained that such changes would improve the country’s economic status by improving productivity, creation of jobs and boosting of national pride. Okechukwu, represented by the Deputy Director, Programmes, Mr Linus Chidiebere, said that the commencement of the campaign anew in Aba, was fit and proper as the city is Abia’s commercial hub. She, therefore, called on all and sundry to support efforts at promoting Nigerian-made products and services as well as to confront the dwindling purchasing power of the naira. In the same light, the Second Vice President, ACCIMA, Mr Jerry Kalu, said that chamber was glad to be hosting the Aba League of Associations and other partners. He urged the government to work hard to surmount major problems of industrialisation, including poor power generation, poor road networks and high-interest rates. He stated that such intervention should happen if the nation must progress and patronage of locally made goods would be enhanced. On his part, Mr Daniel Chinagozi, Founder/CEO of Innovation Hub and Partner Google Skills in Nigeria, said the sensitisation was aimed at informing stakeholders about Google’s planned launch of its local manufacturers’ community in Aba on Thursday. He said that the Google engagement in ‘Digital Skills for Africa’, through which the search engine platform intends to train 10 million persons in Africa, would enable traders and artisans to boost their businesses. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the launch would also come up on Thursday and would enable such stakeholders to use the web and internet in growing their businesses. Chinagozi called on Aba entrepreneurs to avail themselves of the opportunity by taking part in the launch and training sessions which would improve knowledge and widen reach.  