By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) –  Gombe State Governor, Alhaji Inuwa Yahaya on Friday  met with the Executive Secretary of Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC), Dr. Hamid Bobboyi in Abuja and expressed his administration’s readiness to access the three billion (N3 billion) basic education grant due to the state from the commission. Recall that about
3 Billion Naira grant for basic education in Gombe State is said to be  lying fallow, 
owing to non-full commitment of counterpart funding by the immediate
past administration. The Senior
Special Assistant (Media and Publicity) to Gombe State Governor, Ismaila Uba
Misilli made this known in a statement made available to newsmen. According to
the statement, the Governor guaranteed to pay the balance of the counterpart
funds within one week and access the funds for the development of basic
education in the state. Hear him. “We
are here today at UBEC to familiarize ourselves and to know the level of
compliance and the status of partnership and relationship between Gombe state
and UBEC, particularly as it relates to funds that are available for
educational development at the basic level in this financial year”. “We
have realized that we have some funds to access, close to 3 Billion Naira and
by the end of next week, we will fulfill our own part and access the funds so
that we can judiciously use them to provide high quality basic education to our
teeming people in line with Mr. President’s marching order”. He said he
has already obtained the commitment of the Commission to do the needful within
the shortest possible time. On his part,
the Executive Secretary, Universal Basic Education Commission, Dr. Hamid
Bobboyi commended the Governor for his uncommon show of commitment to ensure
that the available resources for development of education in his state are
accessed and deployed for the good of the people. Hear Him”, We had a
robust and wide ranging discussion with His Excellency on how Gombe state
Government and Universal Basic Education Commission could join forces to ensure
that the basic education sector functions effectively in the state. We are
committed to our words and will ensure that what is due for Gombe state gets
there”. Sundiata Post
recalls that since assumption of office, Governor Inuwa has been engaging
development partners and relevant agencies in series of meetings on areas of
collaboration and strategic partnerships in the overall interest of the state.