Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Hadi Ametuo-led Kogi state chapter of
the All Progressives Congress (APC) has resolved to adopt direct election for
the forthcoming primary election in August, ahead of the November 16 gubernatorial
election in the state. The party took the decision on Monday in Lokoja the state
capital at a meeting attended by the party executives and stakeholders. Recall that a faction of the party loyal to the state governor,
Yahaya Bello; on Saturday, declared to adopt indirect election for the party’s
primary election. Speaking to the press immediately after the meeting,the state chairman
of the APC, Hadi Emetuo, the said: “The executives of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kogi
state has just risen from a meeting and unanimously adopted indirect election
for the APC primary election after deliberations in which every member was
given fair hearing and all suggestions were put into consideration. “We adopted the indirect election format because we all
agreed that it is the best method that strengthens and promotes internal
democracy within our great party. It is the method that allows every voice to
be heard and gives opportunity to every member of the APC to participate directly
in the decision of who flies the flag of our great party to victory in
November. “I want also to use this opportunity to formally attend to
the rumour flying around in the media that some supposed state party executives
have held a kangaroo meeting and have declared indirect election as the method
adopted by Kogi APC for the primary election. I want to categorically state
that such meeting is illegal, null and void. The genuine state party executives and stakeholders have just
held a meeting and what I tell you now is that the official position of the All
Progressives Congress, Kogi State Chapter, as regards mode of the forthcoming
primary election. Any other meetings or resolutions should be disregarded by
all party members and the general public as they are fake and illegal. “We are working assiduously for victory in the November 16
election and will not give room to nefarious elements to instigate internal wrangling
capable of scuttling our chances.”