By Okeoghene AkubuikeAbuja – A public affairs analyst, Mr Carl Umegboro, has advised hed members of the 9th National Assembly to demonstrate statesmanship in the discharging their legislative functions, in the interest of the people. Umegboro, also a social crusader, gave the advice in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Tuesday while speaking on peoples’ expectations from the 9th National Assembly. He said that lawmakers must discharge their duties with a high sense of patriotism, objectivity and responsibility, adding that their effectiveness would no longer be measured by number of bills they passed. According to him, such bills, when passed into law by the president, should be able to impact more on the people. “Lawmakers should first and foremost, review forthwith their outrageous monthly running cost and other sundry allowances to reduce burden on theeconomy ensure a boost in capital expenditures. “As distinguished Senators and Honourable members, let the term ‘budget-padding’ leave their psyche permanently. “The present lawmakers should avoid paying lip service to public interests as their predecessors did. Umegboro said the Electoral Act should be reviewed accordingly for re-presentation, adding that the representation should be done in good time. According to the analyst, previously the Act was believed to be maliciously and deficiently put together for selfish interests. Umegboro added that the electoral system should be upgraded to a complete digital voting system, against the long existing paper-and-ink ballot system for credible and cost-reflective elections. He also counseled that the 9th Assembly should engage objectively with the executive arm of government for significant achievements and not for selfish interest or show of power. The social crusader enjoined the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, to ensure cordial relationship between the legislative and executive arm of government. He said that cordial relationship could be ensured with productive engagements and dialogue. “The masses are not interested in personal attacks and brawls but effective service-delivery. “Generally, people expect luxuriant growth in the economy and people-oriented policies, and not aimless or subjective squabbles with the executive. “As lawmakers representing the people in various constituencies, national interest should come before party affiliations; pull down syndromes against good initiatives from another political party members should be dropped’’ Umegboro stressed.