Nollywood actor, Akah Nnani who yesterday became the first COZA member to stand with Busola Dakolo. He took to his Instagram to advise Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo that the first thing to do on Sunday during church service to announce to the member that his is stepping down from the position of senior pastor whether quilty or not until this whole issues is resolved This is coming after the senior pastor of COZA, Biodun Fatoyinbo has accused by Busola Dakolo for allegedly raping and diverging her. Read his post below… “This issue has been addressed by the senior pastor. Pastor has said he never raped anyone in his life. Good! Now what next?  Dear @biodunfatoyinbo The next thing to do sir, is to step down from the position of senior pastor. But I know you know this sir and the church is in fact already making arrangements for this because anything contrary to this would be unconscionable, corrupt and anarchical.  In proper states, governments, working systems, businesses and organisations even in the circular domain, the leader in question will step down first. INNOCENT OR NOT. The only thing I want to hear on Sunday is pastor announcing to the church that he is stepping down and not a single word more to sway the emotions of the congregation or encourage them to defend on social media or even any sermon from him. Someone else can take the word. TILL THIS WHOLE THING CLEARS AND WE CAN SEE ROAD!! But hey, Like I said, I know they will do the right thing.  Now, ‘Should in case’ He doesn’t step down, or he preaches a sermon, or just maybe the church organisation does not know the right thing to do, then I am calling on all well meaning human beings, all well meaning Christians, truly called Pastors, to raise their voice on all social media platforms with this hashtag, #PastorStepDown and demand for the right procedure to be followed till the whole matter is resolved. On all social media platforms. Adesua Etomi took to her Instagram page to beg COZA Pastor, Biodun Fatoyinbo to step down after Busola Dakolo accused him of rape. I humbly implore ALL @cozaglobal members to watch the entire 4 parts of @busoladakolo account with a pure and human heart. Watch with the intention to listen. See the woman speaking. SEE HER. May we all operate in wisdom and love. Madness is not Nigeria’s surname. May Nigerians be free from slavery. The truth will stand up. By the way we need CAN and PFN to step into this matter. I believe these associations are regulatory bodies of Christian churches too. Please bring the table out in the open. In the same vein, Adesua Etomi also took to her Instagram page to beg COZA Pastor, Biodun Fatoyinbo to step down after Busola Dakolo accused him of rape.