The decomposing corpses of a 71-year-old father, Kwakye Kwaku Richard, and his 27-year-old graduate daughter, Kwakye Tope, have been recovered by the Nigeria Police detectives 16 days after they were strangled to death by two Hausa security guards, in Akure, the Ondo State capital. The deceased daughter was due for her NYSC (National Youth Service Corps) programme in July this year. Parading the security guards at the police headquarters in Akure, the state police commissioner Undie Adie, said they have confessed killing the father and daughter under the influence of tramadol and other dangerous drugs. The gruesome murder of the father and daughter took place at Ojomo Akintan Estate, Olu Foam Ilesa/Owo Expressway, Akure, Ondo State. In an interview, the suspects Ayuba Idris aged 20, who was arrested in Kano State where he fled to after the crime and Taisu Abubakar aged 23 also arrested in Sokoto State, confessed that they murdered the daughter first before descending on the father. “We took tramadol and Indian hemp that night at about 8pm and we invited the daughter to come and see who was at the gate. “When she came down we used wire to strangle her. She shouted and this attracted her father who came running to the scene. We then descended on the father who fell inside the gutter and we killed him there. “We later hide their corpses under the staircase in the estate and fled with some of their belongings.” Briefing newsmen, the police commissioner Undie Adie said, “On 2nd May, 2019, at about 0830hrs one Mr. Ojo Adegbusuyi ‘m’ of km 31, Ilesa/Owo expressway, Akure reported that one Kwakye Kwaku Richard ‘m’, aged 71 years and one Kwakye Tope ‘f’ aged 27 years daughter of Mr. Richard with their two Hausa Security guards were missing from their residents at Ojomo Akintan Estate, Olu Foam Ilesa/Owo Expressway, Akure, Ondo State, and that all effort to trace their whereabouts proved abortive. “On receipt of this report, detectives from this Command swung into action and one Ayuba Idris ‘m’ Aged 20 years that happened to be one of their security guards was arrested in Kano State on 16th May, 2019. “The handset of the missing person and his suits were recovered from him. “On 28th May, 2019, detectives also tracked down the alleged Taisu Abubakar ‘m’ Aged 23 years in Sokoto State. One of the victim’s laptop computers and some clothes were recovered from him. “Upon interrogation, he also confessed to the murder of the victims. The two suspects initially said that they killed the 71-year-old Kwakye Kwaku Richard who was their employer because he refused to pay their three (3) months’ salary arrears. “They, however, later recanted their claim by admitting that the deceased did not owe them any salary. ” They said that they also decided to kill the daughter on the same day in order to cover their track since she saw them the day they killed her father. Also paraded include three student cult members in Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko, who killed Daniel Paul aged 21 also a student of same university during initiation. The suspected killers include Ifedayo Oluwaseun aged 19, Nafiu Akani David 22 and Ajibola Philips aged 22. Adie said, “Upon interrogation, the suspects confessed to be members of ‘Aiye’ secret cult Confraternity; they also stated that on 20/4/2019 at about 4:00a.m., they took the deceased to the bush at Akungba Akoko town where he was murdered during initiation. (Independent)