By Oluwafemi Ojo Akure – A lawmaker in Ondo State, Mr Tomide Akinribido, has called on the State and Federal Governments to urgently come to the rescue of people recently affected by flood in his constituency. Akinribido, representing Ondo West Constituency I in the state House of Assembly, said that relevant Federal Government agencies and state government had been formally notified through the state Ministry of Environment. Akinribido also called for the Federal Government’s assistance in urgent construction of drainage channels to prevent recurrence. He appealed to relevant Federal Government agencies like National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to promptly supply relief materials to the victims. The assemblyman said that this would sustain the victims for a period of time before they fully recover their losses. He said that the flood, which occurred on June 6, following a heavy rainfall, had rendered many people homeless. According to him, areas mostly affected by the flood were Arilekolasi New Town and Onipakala areas in Ondo West Local Government area of the state. The lawmaker, who is also the Deputy Minority Leader, said that many residents were already counting their losses. He expressed his displeasure over the incident, which he said destroyed many residential buildings, household equipment and place of worship. The lawmaker said that life has become unbearable for many of the flood victims, adding they had been seeking refuge in the homes of their neighbours, friends and relatives. Akinribido, however, blamed the flood on indiscriminate dumping of refuses on the waterways as well as building of houses on the canals. Also, Mr Olumide Kinga, the Director of Ecology in the Ministry of Environment, assured the residents that a comprehensive detail reports would be forwarded to the Commissioner for Environment on Tuesday for immediate action. Narrating her ordeal, a 110 years old woman, Mrs Dorcas Adebayo, said she had lost all her life investment. Adebayo explained that her place of worship of over 40 years was destroyed by the flood at New Town. The woman said everything she had laboured for over the years had gone with the flood, urging both the State and Federal Governments to assist her. She blamed governments for the total neglect of the waterways in the areas, which she said, caused the flood. Another victim, Mr Akingunsoye Akinruli, said that his house had been taken over by the flood.