By Adenike Ayodele Ikeja –  A 45-year-old teacher, Temitope Ogunlolu, on Monday appeared before an Ikeja Chief Magistrates’ Court for allegedly forging her uncle’s house documents. The police also charged Ogunlolu with  conducting herself in a manner likely to cause breach of the peace by forcefully and unlawfully displaying “Not for Sale” on her uncle’s apartments. The defendant, who resides at No. 22 Dada Akapo St., Agege, Lagos, is facing a five-count-charge bordering on breach of the peace and forgery. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the defendant, however, pleaded not guilty to the charge. According to the prosecutor, ASP Akeem Raji, the defendant had in her possession fake documents of Flat 7, Block 8, Millennium Housing Estate, property of her uncle, Mr Oluwole Ogunlolu. Raji told the court that the defendant committed the offences sometimes in April on Alaagba Estate, Orile Agege, a Lagos suburb. The prosecutor submitted that the uncle bought the said apartment on the defendant’s name with an understanding that the defendant would return the property to him in due time. “The defendant advised the complainant to buy the flat in her name in order to reduce the cost, and the complainant obliged. “The defendant subsequently transferred the property back to complainant through a deed of transfer with all the necessary documents. “The complainant was surprised when the defendant came up with funny stories that the property belonged to her,” he said. The Chief Magistrate, Mrs O.A. Layinka, granted the defendant N100,000 bail with two sureties in like sum. Layinka ruled that the sureties must be gainfully employed and have evidence of two years’ tax payment to the Lagos State Government. She added that the sureties must be related to the defendant by blood and reside within the court’s jurisdiction. The alleged offences contravene Section 168, 320, 326, 340 and 363 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2015, (Revised). The magistrate adjourned the case until June 26 for mention.