As music is a vital part of so many people’s lives,it’s always sad when a beloved musician passes. Recent musician deaths can leave the world shocked that an iconic force of music history is no longer part of this world.When a musician makes headlines among thepeople that died today, it can be shocking. Some singers’ deaths are unsurprising as they are due to old age or long term health issues. However, some singers’ deaths come as a complete shock. Just like this one! The death of another musician leaves the South African music industry shaken once again. Local house vocalist, Nichume Siwundla, has been confirmed dead after an apparent suicide at a friend’s place. The death of the house vocalist, famous for her hit track Bhutiza, has left everyone saddened. Her record label, Top Chap Media, released a statement on Friday, 7 June, confirming the tragic news. Nichume was found at a friend’s place after taking her own life, according to TimesLIVE She was an accomplished musician and a qualified ophthalmologist. The first time Nichume’s encapsulating voice broke through the airwaves was to Deephouse DJ Mobi Dixon’s Bhutiza, a 2017 Summer smash that catapulted the vocalist to a pinnacle she had never thought was possible. She featured on singles “Daydreaming” by Fistaz Mixwell and Mobi Dixon, as well as “Far Away” by DJ Anda featuring Mobi Dixon. Following the success of Bhutiza in 2017, she was then signed to Top Chap Media, founded by Mobi Dixon. The duo had just released a single together titled ‘Thobela’ – which has been making appearances in the top 100 weekly radio charts. The singer’s mentor, Mobi Dixon, was hit very hard by the news. “I’m distraught. I will remember Nichume as a bright light at Top Chap Media where we signed her. She was not only my first artist, but we had grown so close in the past three years that she became my little sister. She truly is gone too soon. May her soul rest in peace.” Nichume’s brother, Qamani, says her family is in disbelief and have many questions about the circumstances of her death. “We, as a family are in absolute shock as to what has happened. Learning that your sister has succumbed to emotions and taken her own life can never rest well. We obviously are left with a lot of questions but also know that she had one of the strongest characters in the family and whatever she was feeling at that moment triggered immense hopelessness. We stand united as a family regardless. Nichume was so loved and appreciated. We’re proud of all her achievements.” Tributes have been pouring in since news about Nichume’s passing came out. May her gentle soul rest in peace. Source