By Olukayode Babalola Lafia – Hajiya Ramatu Sanda, new Coordinator of National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in Nasarawa state has appealed for support from staff of the scheme in tackling challenges facing corps members in the state. Sanda, who made the appeal at the official handing over ceremony in Lafia on Friday, said she was thrilled to resume as the state’s new Coordinator. She added that she would work hard to reduce the challenges faced by corp members to make their stay enjoyable. She called for the support of the staff of the scheme to achieve the goal and surpass the achievements of her predecessor, Mrs Zainab Isah. “Let’s work hand in hand to see how we can move the secretariat forward. We will all work together to see that we please one another. Most importantly, I need all your support in seeing how we can resolve any challenge facing our corp members,” he said. Sanda assured the staff that she would boost their staff by improving their welfare and urged them to reciprocate the gesture for the success of NYSC in the state. She added that the relationship between the scheme and the state government and other establishment in the state would be improved. According to her, this will ensure that corps members get the necessary assistance while performing their national duty in the state. Earlier, Isah, the outgoing Coordinator in the state, thanked staff for their cooperation and urged them to support her successor. She said it was the support by staff that enabled her to construct and inaugurate a standard clinic at the Dan Yamusa Orientation Camp in Keffi Local Government Area. “I thank God my tenure started and ended well. Whatever I have achieved, I couldn’t have achieved without your support. I thank you seriously for standing by me to achieving those laudable goals. “I have learnt a lot from you and I know you would have learnt one or two things from me. I really enjoyed myself working with you but I want you to redouble your work rate for the new Coordinator so that issues on NYSC in the state will be easily sorted out,” she said. In a remark, Chief Greg Anyia, an Assistant Director of the scheme in the state, described Isah as “an achiever and a disciplined workaholic whose methods of working had impacted positively on the staff’’. He assured the new Coordinator that the staff would put in every effort to ensure her succeeded in the discharge of her responsibility. Sanda was the former state Coordinator for Katsina State. (NAN)