By Joshua Olomu Zaria (Kaduna State) – Mr Adedayo Thomas, the Executive Director, National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB), says the board is ready to partner with Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, on capacity building programmes for undergraduates in the North West. Thomas made this known during a courtesy visit to the Vice-Chancellor of the University, Prof. Ibrahim Garba on Thursday in Zaria. Thomas said that the proposed collaboration was in furtherance of the board’s mentorship programme earlier launched for upcoming industry players, especially theatre and other creative arts undergraduates in Nigerian universities. According to him, the board is set to equip young theatre practitioners from the North West with practical knowledge of the movie industry besides their academic experience. “The choice of ABU for this partnership is strategic because of its reputation as a center-point for raising outstanding entrepreneurs not just in the region but across the country and beyond. “As the key regulator of the Nigerian motion picture industry, NFVCB has decided to bring practical knowledge of how the sector works to these potential filmmakers to secure the future of our movie industry. “We are teaching them classifications and rating of videos and films as well as productive use of social media in order to properly position them for opportunities that abound in the industry. “A lot of these youths are script writers, actors and directors, but there is need to bridge the gap between the classroom knowledge and the industry demands to chart a direction for themselves,’’ he said. Thomas told the VC that NFVCB under his watch had taken its Media Literacy and Mentorship initiatives to universities in the region, adding that the initiative would be sustained through the proposed capacity building platform. He said that as the Nigerian movie industry offered more opportunities, there was need to teach undergraduates how to create value and prosperity for themselves from the sector. “Besides the classroom knowledge, our undergraduates must be encouraged to look inward, develop themselves and follow their dreams instead of looking up to the government for everything. “With the right mindset and knowledge, they can become creators of jobs and contribute to our GDP as soon as they leave school,’’ he said. The Vice-Chancellor commended the Executive Director and his management team for the visit and expressed willingness to partner with NFVCB. He said that as a premier university, ABU had always been in the forefront of national economic development and always partnered with relevant institutions. “This is timely and should be accepted because as Nollywood and Kannywood are growing, the educationists must be interested in what they do for the benefit of all. “Collaboration between an industry regulator and us will help our students, especially those in the Theatre and Performing Arts. “I must commend the Head of the Department for this initiative and we hope to maximise what the opportunity offers,” he said. (NAN)