By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Federal lawmaker representing Abia
North senatorial district, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu has said that the south east
does not understand national politics and does not play politics the way it
ought to be played. The former governor of Abia State who accused the south east
of being bad politicians disclosed this on Thursday while fielding questions
from newsmen at a dinner he organized for the newly sworn in President of the Senate,
Senator Ahmed Lawan and the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege in
his Aso Villa residence. According to Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, “South east does not
know how to play politics the way it ought to be played. They are good lawyers,
professionals, businessmen, industrialists and good everything but the south
east does not play politics the way it should be played. They don’t understand
the national politics. I have said it and I have no apologies saying it- they
are not good politicians. If they understand politics, the Ohaneze which is the
umbrella organization of the Ndigbo cannot go and endorse one political party. “I
am a member of Ohanaeze so where do you keep me now? Do I still continue to go
to Ohanaeze, the answer is no because they prefer another party to my own, to
Senator Ken Nnamani’s party. So this is the issue. I have to be careful in
dealing with cultural organisations. Senator Orji Kalu informed he hosted the Senate President,
Senator Ahmed Lawan and the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege to a dinner
bash because the Senate President was his roommate in 1980 at University of
Maiduguri and that Ovie Omo-Agege, apart from being his neighbor, that he has
known him since this democracy started in 1999 when he was working with his friend
and former governor of Delta State, James Onanefo Ibori. Orji wh o stepped down for Omo-Agege said he was happy for
the first time that the supremacy of the party prevailed in the election of the
principal officers in this newly inaugurated nineth senate and for the first
time they were able to vote along party lines. Earlier in his remarks, the Senate President, Senator Ahmed
Lawan who expressed his appreciation to Senator Orji Kalu and family for organizing
the dinner in his honour, recalled that it was when he came to get the
endorsement of Dr Orji Kalu that the his wife, Iffy Orji Kalu assured him that
he will win as Senate President and offered to organise a dinner in his honour
two days after his inauguration as Senate President. The Deputy Senate President thanked Mrs Iffy Orji Kalu and
her husband for the honour done to him and his Deputy, Ovie Omo-Agege. He also
used the occasion to assure the Ambassadors at the dinner of Nigeria’s
co-opertion and charged them to seize the opportunity to improve the bilateral trade
relationship between their countries and Nigeria. The members of the diplomatic corps present at the dinner
are; Ambassadors of Isreal, Brazil, Canada and Cameroon.