 Joseph, who is married with four wives and nine children, was said to have lured the underaged girl to his house and forcefully defiled her. Joseph, who hails from Ogoja, Cross River State, with the father of the victim stayed in the same locality in Lugbogi area of Ondo. It was gathered that Joseph, who is married to four wives with nine children, warned the little girl after having carnal knowledge of her not to tell anybody about the incident, or else she would die mysteriously. A family source explained that the little girl was scared to tell her parent until she started bleeding in the middle of the night and was rushed to the hospital. Her words: “The 12-year-old girl was rushed to the hospital, bleeding profusely from the private part having been defiled and sexually abused, she is still in the hospital till now. “Her parent reported the incident at the Enuowa police station but to the chagrin of all neighbours, Joseph had left his home before dawn before the arrival of the policemen” She, however, said that Joseph was arrested at a park in Ondo town on Thursday while trying to board a bus to Lagos and was subsequently handed over to the police. However, Joseph denied the allegation of defiling the young girl. He said the people of the community conspired against him and implicated him for the crime. Joseph did not explain the reasons for running away from the community. The young girl, however, insisted that his father’s friend, Joseph, was responsible for the rape, saying he forcefully had carnal knowledge of her in his house and warned her not to inform anybody. However, it was gathered that the family of the suspect had been pleading with the victim’s family to settle the matter amicably but the parents of the victim insisted in getting to the root of the matter. It was gathered that the State Ministry of Women affairs, has waded into the matter to ensure that the incident is not swept under the carpet and get justice for the victim who is currently hospitalised. The State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Femi Joseph, who confirmed the incident said the case had been transferred to the State police headquarters in Akure, the state capital. He said the command had commenced an investigation into the matter with a pledge to charge the suspect to court after completing its investigation. (New Telegraph)