By Chibuike
Nwabuko Abuja
(Sundiata Post) – No fewer than 61 All Progressives Congress (APC) senators-elect
have signed up to vote Ahmed Lawan as Senate President of the 9th
senate, his campaign organisation said on Saturday. Senator
Jibrin Barau, who is the secretary, Lawan Campaign Organisation, read the names
on the list to journalists at a press conference at the Transcorp Hilton,
Abuja. Mr
Jibrin said the list which comprises of 62 senators who have endorsed Lawan,
has 60 APC senators and one senator from the Young People’s Party (YPP). He said
the list which was initially 64 came down to 62 after a court nullified APC
elections in  Zamfara State. He
expressed confidence that with the endorsement of Lawan by 61 senators and
others who would endorse him after today and before Tuesday, Senator Lawan
would be voted unopposed as the Senate President on Tuesday. Earlier
in his welcome address, the chairman of Lawan campaign Organisation, Senator Yahaya
Abdullahi, dispelled the notion that Mr. Lawan was arrogant. Accordind
to him, “Some people will come to me and say Lawan is arrogant. He is not
arrogant, he’s a laid down person,” he said. “He’s not an extrovert and this is
the man we are now supporting.” He
further debunked insinuations making rounds that Mr Lawan’s candidacy is an
imposition by the party and the Presidency. “There
was no imposition. There was only coincidence of opinion and that coincidence
favoured us having started earlier to mobilise for support for Senator Lawan. He said
that meetings and campaigns had already started well before the party and the
Presidency’s endorsement. He
described Senator Lawan as a senator who caves in once you are able to convince
him with superior argument. Mr Lawan, who was at the briefing, said the campaign
organisation decided not to add the names of PDP lawmakers to the endorsement
list. He said he was confident of at least 35 votes from the
opposition party. “I can tell you that out of 44 PDP, we cannot have less than
35 to 38,” he said. Below is the list of names as announced by Mr Jibrin: Adamu Aliero (Kebbi Central)
Barau Jibrin (Kano North)
Francis Alimikhena (Edo North)
Solomon Adeola (Lagos West)
Aliyu Abdullahi (Niger North)
Olubunmi Adetumbi (Ekiti North)
Ibrahim Gobir (Sokoto East)
Robert Borrofice (Ondo North)
Sadiq Umar (Kwara North)
Yakubu Useni (Kogi Central)
Adelere Orilowo (Osun West)
Biobarakuma Degi-Eremenyo (Bayelsa East)
Bulus Amos (Gombe South)
Hezekiah Dimka (Plateau Central)
Ignatius Longstan (Plateau South)
Halliru Jika (Bauchi Central)
Kabiru Gaya (Kano South)
Ajibola Basiru (Osun Central)
Abdullahi Adamu (Nasarawa West)
Umaru Al-Makura (Nasarawa South)
Danladi Sankara (Jigawa NorthWest)
Ibrahim Hassan Hadejia (Jigawa North East)
Kashim Shettima (Borno Central)
Sabo Mohammed (Jigawa South-West)
Godiya Akwashuki (Nasarawa North)
Ovie Omo-Agege (Delta Central)
Buhari Abdulfatai (Oyo North)
Adedayo Adeyeye (Ekiti South)
Bello Mandiya (Katsina South)
Yahaya Abdullahi (Kebbi North)
Bala Ibn Na’Allah (Kebbi South)
Yusuf Abubakar Yusuf (Taraba Central)
Oluremi Tinubu (Lagos Central)
David Umaru (Niger East)
Isah Jibrin (Kogi East)
Suleiman Abdu Kwari (Kaduna North)
Ashiru Yisa (Kwara South)
Ibrahim Geidam (Yobe East)
Ahmad Babba Kaita (Katsina North)
Ifeanyi Ubah (Anambra South)
Aliyu Wamakko (Sokoto North)
Lawal Yahaya (Bauchi South)
A.M. Bulkachuwa (Bauchi North)
Ashiru Ahmed (Adamawa Central)
Michael Bamidele (Ekiti Central)
Olalekan Mustapha (Ogun East)
Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun Central)
Abubakar Kyari (Borno North)
Teslim Folarin (Oyo Central)
Uba Sani (Kaduna Central)
Abubakar Shehu (Sokoto South)
Tolu Odebiyi (Ogun West)
Orji Uzor-Kalu (Abia North)
Kabir Barkiya (Katsina Central)
Bima Muhammad Enagi (Niger South)
Ibrahim Shekarau (Kano Central)
Ibrahim Oloriegbe (Lagos East)
Osinowo Adebayo (Lagos East)
Danjuma Goje (Gombe Central)
Saidu Alkali (Gombe North)
Ahmad Lawan (Yobe North)