By Francis Korkor The Africans themselves will stop them. No leadership of a country or continent in their right mind will ever try that. Reason is that modern day warfare is not just a matter of winning the war. You have to also win the hearts and minds of ordinary folks, and that is where things will get very difficult for the hypothetical invaders. Remember in modern times, even the powerful US army found it difficult to win a war against a united and determined North Vietnamese army, the Iraqis and the Afghans. Even in the 19th century, the only reason why the Europeans succeeded in colonizing Africa was not because of their superior fire power as some people wrongly believe. It was because of the lack of unity on the part of the Africans. The European colonist saw the lack of unity and constant tribal warfare, and formed alliances with weaker tribes against the powerful tribes. Since the Europeans did not have the numbers themselves from their own countries, they will import mercenaries from east Asia to Africa, and stuff their armies with their allies from weaker African tribes to fight the powerful African tribes. Believe me, in the 21st century Africans are much more united, and a simple plan of divide and conquer will not work for any country trying to conquer Africa. Just think of it, Africa is so big with 54 countries and 1.3 billion people. The population is almost the same as China’s. So where will an invading country even start? Will they have enough personnel to even hold onto the territory they capture, and have enough to keep fighting on? The answer is definitely no. Not even the Super power army of the USA can do it in the 21st century if the Africans are united. Also most of their military equipment will not work once they cross the desert and enter the vast African rainforest. They will have to resort to hand to hand combat, and this is where the Africans knowing the terrain, will have combat advantage over the invading country. Most modern day armies use their air superiority to see the enemy, but in the thick rainforests of Africa, they will not be able to see the Africans hiding under the thick forest cover-similar to what happened in Vietnam to the US army. So in conclusion, a country may try to invade a single African country, but no country will ever try invading all of Africa, because their military generals will let the leadership know that they will not succeed. Source: Quora