By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The erstwhile National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Chief John Oyegun, has absolved himself of any blame over the current crisis rocking the party, saying that the national Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole lacks the temperament required to run a political party. Oyegun disclosed this while reacting to a statement credited to six South-south state chairmen of APC issued at the weekend, where they attributed the current challenges facing the party as a landmine left behind by Chief Oyegun’s administration. Responding on Sunday through a statement signed by his Special Assistant on Public Affairs, Chief Ray Morphy, the former National Chairman said: “Oshiomhole fails because he lacks the temperament that is required to run a political party. He lacks the capacity to manage the different interests and tendencies that constitute a political party. “He engages his mouth before engaging his mind, so he offends party members, so how does that constitute booby traps by Oyegun, the erstwhile chairman. “Already, the Deputy National Chairman has confirmed that Oshiomhole runs the party without recourse to the NWC. “He acts in direct opposite of decisions taken by NWC. “No minutes of NWC meetings which in any event take place outside the party Secretariat.How would you not have crisis in states with the confusion that Oshiomhole created when he gave the states freedom to choose their methods of choosing candidates for elections. Much of the crisis in states arose out of sheer incapacity on the part of the current chairman, how his this Oshiomhole incapacity become booby traps by Oyegun.” Chief Oyegun also said that many party men were aghast to what he described as “the unfairness and injustice meted them during the primaries process. “Only a bad carpenter quarrels with his tools. Indeed Oshiomhole is degrading and de-marketing the party, rather than seek to bring more people on board, he is rather chasing people out of the party with his agbero style of engagement.