By Chibuike
Nwabuko Abuja
(Sundiata Post) –  The Chief Commissioner
of Scout Nigeria, Mr Dave Awunah has moved to reposition the association to
achieve its core mandate which is the prevention of occurrences of crisis or
issues that can cause war by raising good citizens. He informed that
scout Nigeria prevents war from occurring by trying to teaching the younger
ones so that they grow up to be good citizens and try to make the world a
better place. “If you want to get it right, you have to mold the way of the
children. Dave who
disclosed this in his Abuja office while fielding questions from newsmen, also
gave insight as to how what was formerly known as the “Boys Scout”
metamorphosed to Scout Association of Nigeria. He informed
that scout Nigeria has launched what he called Campaign Against Drug Abuse
(CADA) to affect the peer age model. The idea is to galvanise head boys and
head girls of all the secondary schools across the country on how to influence
their peers in school against drug abuse. Same is also being planned for the
principals of the secondary and Headmasters of the Primary schools. The
Commissioner informed that Scout Nigeria is also in partnership with the
National Emergency Management Agency for quick intervention in cases of
disaster even as it has written to the National Security Adviser infrming of
its intention to carry out a campaign against drug abuse. Scout Nigeria also
plans to partner with NAPTIP againt child trafficking and abuse. The
commissioner who went down memory lane recalled that Boys Scout was popular
because it has a history of being more formal builders of a lot of person and
work force of Nigeria – the military, police and even the para -military. Most
of these have the foundation of scouting, he added. However, it
was the Bergin conference that took very strong position on women inclusion in participation
of every activity in the world and scout happens to be the foremost singular bIggest
organization in the world.  But what we
do basically is to try and attempt to prevent occurrence of crisis or war. It was
because of that that former president Olusugun Obasanjo, a Queen’s Scout (that
is the highest level scout) and a qualified corps trainer that trains scouts between
the ages of 6 and 10. According to
him, after the first world Scout jamboree job in 1977, he created what is
called “a man of war – Man O War was scotched from scouting. He informed
that Scout association is the only no-governmental organisaton established by
act of parliament which is under amendment to include women and adult. Therefore
the inclusion of the old and young cannot be over-emphasized, hence the “Scout
Nigeria Association”. But we all know that if you want a society to get it
right, you not only build the children because adults usually stand as role
model to the young ones. So you try to shape the society with the adults and
through that guide the younger ones, the children towards becoming better
citizens as they grow.