By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The crisis between
Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano state and the Emir of Kano Muhammadu Sanusi
II may have come to an end after the duo reached a truce on Friday night, June
7, in Abuja, Daily Nigerian reports. The newspaper reports that President Muhammadu
Buhari had earlier on Friday mediated in the matter. President Buhari reportedly intervened
following calls by northern elders as the estrangement between the governor and
the emir raised tension in the state. It was gathered that the president’s
intervention comes a day to the expiration of a query issued to the emir by the
state government, seeking answer on alleged misappropriation of the emirate’s
finances. At the peace meeting held on Friday night, the
governor and the emir reportedly agreed to sheath the sword for the interest of
Kano and to prevent break down of law and order. The reconciliation meeting was allegedly
presided over by the chairman of Nigerian Governors’ Forum and governor of
Ekiti state, Kayode Fayemi, and attended by “a very few notable personalities”,
Daily Nigerian says. “All I can tell you is that the meeting is
positive. The parties have agreed to work together in the interest of peace,
stability and progress of Kano,” the newspaper quoted a source at the
presidency. “The president will be briefed on the outcome
of the meeting. ” The newspaper also said it gathered that
despite the truce, the Emir Sanusi has decided to clear his name by responding
to the query of the state government regarding allegations leveled against him
by the Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission. Meanwhile, an updated report by the News
Agency of Nigeria (NAN) also states that the crisis has been resolved following
the reconciliatory meeting. NAN reports that this is contained in a
statement by Abba Anwar, the chief press secretary to Governor Ganduje. According to Anwar, the reconciliatory meeting
was initiated by the Kano born business mogul Alhaji Aliko Dangote and Governor
Fayemi. He said after the meeting, the duo exchanged
pleasantries with each other in Abuja on Friday. “As the two leaders met, they congratulated
each other for the successful completion of the Ramadan Fast and the
Eid-el-Fitr celebration. “Both leaders spoke and urged all Muslims to
continue with the good teachings and spirit of the Fasting period of the Month
of Ramadan. “Emir Sanusi seized the opportunity to
congratulate Gov. Ganduje for the victory in his second term in office. He also
wished the governor successful tenure in office.” According to the statement, the two agreed
that “for healthier relationship between the two institutions of government and
Kano Emirate Council, the dialogues will continue.” Emir
Sanusi reportedly left Malam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA) on
Thursday evening, June 6, for Abuja for the meeting in company of many district
heads. Recall that the crisis had earlier been linked
to Emir Sanusi’s alleged support for the opposition People’s Democratic Party
(PDP) candidate, Abba Yusuf, in the 2019 governorship election in the state.