By Ezra Musa Kaduna. -. An environmentalist, Ms Zulai Mohammed, says she has trained 50 students on tree planting to enable them support the fight against desertification and global warming. Zulai, who is also the Director, Olive International School in Kaduna, said the sensitisation and training would enable the students know the importance of trees to the environment. The training is part of events to mark the World Enviroment Day (WED), celebrated on June 5 globally. According to her, the essence of the training is to educate the children on how they will support federal and state governments, NGOs, civil society organisations (CSOs) in raising more awareness toward protecting the environment against all forms of natural disasters. “Trees are important sources of oxygen and natural air filters that are very important to the existence of mankind on earth.” She said that the best way to teach children about the importance of trees was to demonstrate eco-friendliness by example. “When they see you planting trees and caring for the environment, they will value the idea. “Trees are important for environment, economic, social and personal development; therefore we must teach our children how to plant trees and how to protect them.” She said that the school was planning to introduce climate change education for school children to educate them about the effect of global warming and health challenges associated with climate change. “We bring them together to teach them how to plant trees even if it means growing small four to five potted plants in their areas. “We also teach them how to take care of their trees, and make them responsible for the daily watering process, “ she said. She called on federal and state governments to end deforestation and all stakeholders to be more committed in the fight against felling of forest trees. Responding, Mohammadu Maganin, District Head of Unguwan Badikko, thanked the school for the enlightenment campaign for students on the importance of tree planting. He emphasised the need for their community to also take part in planting more trees in the areas. He urged the people in the community on the need to show commitment on their own part. In his message on the day, the Patron, African Climate Reporters, Dr Yusuf Nadabo said that there was need to spread the awareness about trees planting on social media to attract more youths to be involved in the exercise. Nadabo said that planting of new trees should be made mandatory for industries such as textile companies and manufactures, who pollute the air and water more. He called on Nigerians to support environmental initiatives with communities working on planting of new trees, protection and environment awareness. He further called on Federal Government to declare state of emergency in the forestry sector. “This will protect the entire forestry against continuous felling of trees without planting new ones in the community.” The UN Environment Programme (UNEP) annually organises events for WED to create  awareness and encourage action for the protection of the environment. According to the UNEP,  China is expected to host the global world environment celebration with the theme: “Air pollution”.