By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) –
As Senator took their turns to speak on their experiences in the 8th
senate at a valedictory session, federal lawmaker representing Kogi West
Senatorial District, Senator Dino Melaye has eulogized the leadership style of
the President of the Senate, Senator Bukola Saraki. He praised Saraki for being
steadfast, despite conspiracies from various quarters in the last four
years. Dino also narrated two
historical days he cannot forget in a hurry said: “I have two
historical dates I will never forget in the history of the 8th Senate.  One
is the day Senator Ovie Omo-Agege desecrated the hallowed Chambers when he led
thugs to steal the mace.” “It was day of
sorrow.  It was the day; he led dissidents to the Chambers to remove
the symbol of democracy”. He said, he wept when
Senator Ovie Omo-Agege representing Delta Central Senatorial district led thugs
into the Chambers to snatch the mace. According to him, Omo-Agege’s
action amounted to tampering with democracy’s symbol of authority. “Another day of
merriment and joy was the day a man with political sagacity, and administrative
prowess in the person of Senator Bukola Saraki was elected Senate President on
9th June, 2015.” Hear him: “Mr.
President, my distinguished colleagues, I thank God Almighty who is the
custodian of the universe. You recall Mr. President, that I address you as
irremovable President of the Nigeria Senate when cankerworms and caterpillars
began to attack me.” Dino who also
recounted the ordeals he and Saraki had to go through in the 8th
senate said thus: “When the Code of
Conduct Bureau petitioned you and took you to court, today, Mr.  President
you are not going to end your task, but have a glorious exit”. “To my surprise, those
who orchestrated your removal are today calling you their mentor.” “When the
governor of Kogi State and his allies took on me and initiated a recall
process, the project failed woefully.” “I thank God
because in 2017, I was arrested 8 times and out of 365 days in 2018, I spent
144 in Police custody.” “I campaign only
4 days to the election and I won.  Mr. President, last year, I was
arraigned 12 times. Dino vs.  Federal government of Nigeria is in 12 courts”. “Today, I am
still standing undisputedly as a Senator of the Federal Republic of
Nigeria.” Sundiata Post recalls that the 8th Senate ended their session today with a valedictory session and has adjourned sine die. Recall that the 9th National Assembly will be inaugurated on 11th of June, 2019.