Abuja (Sundiata Post) – National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus on Sunday said that the fear of insecurity and intimidation of judges raised by the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), has vindicated the PDP’s position that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), was using devious means to obstruct justice from coming out from the nation’s courts. This was contained in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja by his Special Adviser, (Media), Mr Ike Abonyi. Recall that the NBA President Paul Usoro SAN had on Thursday in a speech which was unanimously adopted by the National Executive Committee of the Association, alerted the nation that “the level of insecurity in the country and the attack on the independence of the judiciary and the legal profession constituted a threat to the rule of law and by extension the country’s democracy.” The NBA boss declared that the climate of fear instilled by the Federal Government undermined the independence of the judiciary and the ability of judges to act confidently without fear or favour in dispensing justice as they are threatened, intimidated and blackmailed by mostly the executive arm of government and their agencies at federal and state levels. However, Secondus pointed out that the NBA alarm merely confirmed the position of PDP that APC administration was shrinking the doctrine of separation of power to enable a full-blown dictatorship to blossom. He noted that judges and justices by their calling could not speak out publicly even if they were under pains except through the bar as had been eloquently and timely done by the NBA and said that all democratic watchers should note this concerns. Secondus pointed out that the PDP had continuously raised alarm at the gradual erosion of the doctrines of separation of power by the APC administration as the nation watches helplessly as the executive continues to muzzle the other arms of government including even the press. He stated that the opposition had remained resolute in crying out loud against harassment of those with opposing views because it clearly envisages the danger of concentration of power in one hand especially with a leader who has no history of appreciating and respecting democratic tenets and principles. The National Chairman however expressed the hope that even in the face of harassment and intimidation, the Nigeria judiciary knowing their critical position in the sustenance of democracy in the land and being citizens who were resident in the country, “knows that judiciary is the last hope of the ordinary people and that no nation grows on injustice.” In a related development, Secondus also condoled with the people of Kom Kom in Oyigbo Local Government Area of Rivers State who lost their relatives at the gas pipeline explosion that killed dozens of citizens when Shell Petroleum Development Company, SPDC was carrying out routine maintenance of the facility in the area. “Our hearts are with you at this trying times,” Prince Secondus said while lamenting the incessant hazard of the people of the Niger Delta due to the neglect and insensitivity of the Federal Government to listen to the cries of the people. He also commiserated with victims of the senseless killings in Zamfara and other states in North West and the North East zones. He then charged the relevant authorities including the oil and gas companies to show some sensitivities on the plight of the people of Niger Delta on the health hazards they are exposed to as a result of exploration of their God-given natural resources.  