By Chiazo Ogbolu Lagos – The MTN’s annual internal Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Programme known as “21 Days of Y’ello Care’’ was on Monday inaugurated in Lagos. The Chief Executive Officer of MTN Nigeria, Mr Ferdi Moolman, said during the inauguration, that the programme was focused on youth empowerment, digital technologies, mental health and creating a brighter future. Moolman was represented by Mrs Esther Akinnukawe, MTN Human Resource Executive. According to him, from June 1 to June 21, thousands of MTNers across 21 Operating Companies (OpCos) will be given their time to touch the lives of people in their various markets. “The 21-Day is to create value for our communities in a sustainable way and it is just not in Nigeria but a global MTN project. “We are doing the same in Nigeria, and our theme this year is `Creating a Brighter Future for the Youth’’. “To show that we care, we will be visiting markets, schools, orphanages, Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camp and others,’’ he said. Moolman said that activities lined up for the programme include: Information and Communications Technology training sessions; set-up of e-libraries in secondary schools; a hackathon competition; and a career fair. He said that as part of Y’ello Care, there was also a Y’ello National Project and the 2019 programme focused on Mental Health Awareness as there was need to bring attention to issues around mental health. He said during the 21 days, there would be a mental health awareness walk tagged: “Healthy Inspired People’’ where MTNers would educate the public about mental health. The Chief Corporate Relations Officer, MTN, Mr Tobechukwu Okigbo, said that the 21days of Y’ello Care was about MTN taking out time, personal resources to contribute to people’s lives. “The 21days of Y’ello Care is on its 13th year and during this period, we are going to give back to the society. “It is not that the rest of the 365 days we are not doing something different but every single day in MTN, we are giving back to the society. “We give communication, every 365 days we help people to connect to others, influence health, do everything to make the world a better place and assist government to provide better environment for people,’’ Okigbo said. ‘’Unlike the Foundation’s projects that are funded by the company and achieved over time, the “21 Days of Y’ello Care’’ is supported by the efforts of employees. ‘’In all footprints of the MTN Group, employees themselves define the social actions they intend carrying out and then materially and personally invest in achieving such projects,’’ he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that the programme: “21 Days of Y’ello Care’’ is a social investment policy complement embodied by the MTN Foundation. (NAN)