By Ibrahim Bello Birnin Kebbi – ActionAid Nigeria, a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) in collaboration with Active Support for Rural People Initiative (ASURPI) another NGO, on Monday distributed relief materials to the victims of a recent fire disaster in Magali community of Ngaski Local Government Area of Kebbi. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the fire incident occurred on April 28, and engulfed houses, properties, animals and farm produce destroyed in Magali community. Alhaji Ibrahim Ngaski, the Chief Executive Officer of ASURPI, while speaking during the distribution exercise said the materials were provided by the two organisations to assist the victims. “We conducted an assessment to know the immediate needs and also know the exact number of households affected, during the intervention, food and non-food items are being given to the victims. “The two partners are in this area to assist the victims in view of the hardship they are facing after the fire incident. “However, the relief assistance is not commiserating with the loss they have incurred and this is not a compensation, but rather assistance to alleviate your sufferings.” he said. Ngaski also advised the beneficiaries to get into contact with their elected representatives to demand for social services. Earlier, the representative of AAN, Mrs Hajara Adamu commiserated with the victims on behalf of Actionaid organisation. “Actionaid always wants to see a society free from poverty in which all people have access to equitable share of resources and justice. “The NGO always wants to work with the poor and marginalised people in the communities across Nigeria with women, children and people with disability as its priority,” she said. Adamu advised women to always be part of the community decision-making so that their voices could be heard. NAN reports that items distributed included; rice; millet; jerry cans of cooking oil; bathing soap; sanitary pads; mats; solar lantern and female undergarments, among others. One of the beneficiaries, Sahura Shehu, who is a mother of four children, thanked the NGOs for their intervention.