Abuja – Alhaji Ibrahim Goni, the Conservator-General, National Parks Service says the current redeployment officers and men of the service to critical areas is for effective service delivery. DCP Yakubu Zull, the Deputy Conservator of Park made this known in a statement on Thursday in Abuja. Goni said the redeployment was with immediate effect, which he said be approved to reform and improve efficiency in service delivery in the system. The C-G charged the affected officers to justify the confidence reposed in them by adding value to the service and taking the parks to the next level, Goni congratulated the officers and urged them to run an inclusive administration, placing premium on staff welfare and participatory management. The redeployment, showed that Assistant Conservator-General, George Okeyoyin will now oversee Fiscal Planning/Procurement and Financial Units, while Assistant Conservator-General, Yakubu Kolo will oversee the Planning, Research and ICT, Works and Maintenance Departments at the headquarters. Others affected are the Conservator of Okomu National Park, CP Ahmed Abdullahi, who was moved to the headquarters as the Head of Park Co-ordination Division. Also Cornelius Oladipo the Conservator of Old Oyo National Park was moved to the headquarters as Head, Research and Scientific Services Division. The Conservator of Park, Gabriel Agba was moved from Gashaka Gumti National Park to the Headquarters as Head of ICT Division, the Conservator of Park, Emmanuel Bebiem is the new Head of Conservation Education and Outreach Division at the Headquarters. The Conservator of Park, Ntui Joseph is the Head of Planning and Statistic Division of the headquarters and Conservator of Park, Abdulrahaman Mohammed is the Head of Veterinary Service. Also Conservator of Park, Omole Martins is now the Head of Finance/Budget, Hamman Dunganari was moved from Old Oyo National Park to the headquarters as Head of Ecological Division. The Conservator of Kainji Lake National Park, Mohammed Kabir was moved to Gashaka Gumti National Park to replace Yohanna Saidu who retired recently, among other redeployments.