By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Vice Admiral Jibrin Usman has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for declaring June 12 as democracy day. He gave the commendation in a goodwill message to the people of Kogi state and Nigerians in general. Jibrin, in a statement he personally signed, assured the Kogi people that despite the thick and thin they are going through that Kogi State will surely be great again. The statement reads in full: I heartily felicitate with Nigerians and the good people of Kogi State in particular on this auspicious occasion of the 2019 democracy day celebration taking place across the country today. On this day, I pray for peace, stability, tranquility and prosperity for the people of the State. There is no gainsaying the fact that we have been through thick and thin and have had rough and unpleasant experiences over the years. I urge you all to continue to hold unto the hope that tomorrow will surely be better than today. The desired positive change that will better the lots of Kogi people and its workforce will by God’s grace come to pass. With faith in God, the critical situation we have found ourselves in the State today will surely be reversed into a story of transformation and progress. Insha Allah, soon, the state shall break loose from the shackles of all forms of socio-economic difficulties in which it has been encased. I urge us not to relent in our efforts and prayers to have a very responsive government that will meet the needs, yearnings and aspirations of our people. As we celebrate democracy today, regardless of the anomalies in the economic situation of our dear State, I urge you all to continue to pursue the ideals and actions that would strengthen rather than undermine democracy because democracy remains the best form of government for the people. I beseech us to have and hold on to the faith that we will rise and soar above all which have held us back. I am hopeful that in due course, all economic, security and other challenges confronting the our State will be surmounted and normalcy restored in the land. I am optimistic and have the strong belief that Kogi State will surely be great again. Finally, I will like to commend President Muhammadu Buhari for declaring this day, 12 June, the new Democracy Day in honor of the late M.K.O Abiola. It is an honour well deserved. This act alone fills one with the strong hope that democracy has come to stay in Nigeria and it will continue to grow from strength to strength. Happy Democracy Day.Signed:Vice Admiral Jibrin Usman CFR.