A pregant mum has relived the moment she was knifed by her evil lover after his religious mum found out She and the baby amazingly survived the attack in 2016 but she has now opened up about how her “world fell apart”. Babur Karamat Raja, 43, tried to murder Natalie Queiroz, 43, and their unborn baby by stabbing her in the stomach and chest 24 times with a 12-inch carving knife. Strangers rushed to their rescue and Natalie, of Sutton Coldfield, was only saved because a breast implant protected her heart. The blade missed her baby girl, now three, by just 2mm. It wasn’t until Natalie, who was 32-weeks along, came around from emergency surgery that she discovered it was her partner that tried to kill her in the brutal nine-minute attack. MIRACULOUSLY SURVIVED He had put his rucksack under his jumper to make himself look fatter so his victim wouldn’t recognise him. Natalie told the Mirror: “My world fell apart. I was utterly broken, but I needed to carry on for my girls.” The couple had known each other for 25 years before they got together and Natalie described their romance as a “fairy tale”. He was “brilliant” with her two young daughters and she was over the moon when he said he wanted more children. But when Natalie became pregnant she feared what his strict Muslim family would think, as Raja’s mother wanted him to have an arranged marriage. When she was eight months pregnant Raja asked her to meet up in Sutton Coldfield town cenrte. As she was walking to him a man jumped on her and began stabbing her in the chest over and over again. Two passersby tried to restrain him but he carried on stabbing, and after she broke free he chased her down and knifed her in the wrist. Then he stabbed her in the stomach and held the blade to her throat, before a teenage boy came to her rescue. A police patrol heard her screaming and managed to restrain her attacker. There was blood everywhere and Natalie said she could see the inside of her muscles on her arm where he’d sliced at her. EMERGENCY SURGERY She was airlifted to hospital and rushed to theatre, where 30 different medics rushed to save her life. When she woke up the next day her baby girl was lying next to her bed in an incubator and she was told who had tried to kill them. The little girl had been starved of oxygen during the ordeal and docs don’t know if she’ll have any developmental problems as a result. Raja was jailed for 18 years for charges including attempted murder and attempted child destruction. He claimed he’d attacked her because he was “under pressure” from his religious family, who would never accept the relationship. At the same time the Mercedes repair firm boss was having financial difficulties and he was unable to give Natalie £36,000 he had promised. Natalie visited him in prison several months after the attack, where she claimed he spoke as if she’d “been attacked by somebody else”. She’s been treated for PTSD since the attack and has now met someone new. Source: The Sun UK