Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Erstwhile
Governor of Gombe State, Ibrahim Dankwambo has been accused of selling assets
belonging to Gombe State government to his cronies without recourse to due
process. This was revealed by the Senior Special
Assistant to the Gombe State Governor on Media
and Publicity, Ismaila Misilliin an interview with Punch Sunday. According to him, “There
is a rule that stipulates the number of years in service before you can benefit
from auction of government property. However he informed that there are those who
served the state for just three months under the previous administration but
went away with exotic brand new cars. Even if it was monetised, they are not
entitled to the vehicles, he maintained. The SSA who informed that a committee has been set up to said: “That is the essence of Air Cmdr. Peter Bilal
(retd.) committee, which has a responsibility of validating the process some of
those assets were auctioned. The committee checked and found out that they didn’t follow due process. The
committee, in its wisdom, asked those who had collected public properties of
whatever kind in the twilight of the Dankwambo administration to return them so
that we can take record of them while the investigation continues. This was why
some aides of the former governor, commissioners and the ex-Deputy Governor,
Charles Iliya, returned one armoured vehicle and two exotic sport utility
vehicles. “There are those who served the state for just three months but
went away with exotic brand new cars. Even if it was monetised, they are not
entitled to the vehicles. There is a rule that stipulates the number of years
in service before you can benefit from such auction. How else will you describe
the reckless sale of useful properties belonging to the state government? There
are receipts of those that paid and those who did not pay. There are also
receipts that claimed the former governor paid for his acquired property;
whereas, he did not pay and were not approved by the council. The senior special Assistant who said he is not in his position
to pronounce any person as being corrupt as only the court has such powers,
reiterated that the government is only asking simple and clear questions. “Towards the end of the last administration, there was this rush
to sell government properties to the cronies of the last dispensation. So, the
government only thought it expedient to ask fundamental questions if they
followed due process in the disposal of such assets. I don’t know the part of
the world where new things are auctioned at ridiculous amount. Across the
globe, property will not just be auctioned without genuine reasons. However, it
will not be fair for anyone to assume or infer that they were corrupt as that
is not for us to say. That is left for the court to determine in due course. The senior Aide while dismissing the news making rounds that the
allegations were mere fabrications to score political points  said thus: Which political goal are we talking about here? Are you talking
about someone that has already won an election? There is no political goal to
be scored anywhere. Governor Inuwa Yahaya was massively voted for across the 11
local governments and he enjoys the love of residents across the state. So, we
don’t understand why the fact-finding effort would be seen as an attempt to
score a political goal. The point is if you are given a responsibility to take
care of an assignment in any capacity as a chairman, governor, president, it is
imperative that you do an all-round check to ascertain the level of
inadequacies. This is exactly what this committee is trying to do by asking a
few questions since it is on record that brand new cars were purchased and
auctioned before our assumption. We are all citizens of Gombe State. It is
about asking fundamental questions about the whereabouts of the vehicles that
the committee discovered to be in possession of a few individuals. Where in the
world will you carry five vehicles worth over N300m
auctioned to one person (yourself) at N12m, thereby leaving the current
governor’s convoy with old and rickety vehicles? Those that are complaining are
those that are beneficiaries of his largesse. One of those that are crying wolf
quietly sent the vehicle back to us because he does not want to be embarrassed
and he is busy encouraging others not to return theirs. Some complained that
until they are paid gratuity, they cannot release theirs. This government is very focused. You don’t expect the government
to keep quiet when there was a breach of trust by the previous administration.
As you already know, government is a continuum. Talking about auction of public
property, is there any law that permits someone to buy something today and sell
it tomorrow? These are things that are held in trust for the people and meant
to be in the service of the majority. We are talking about brand new cars. Go
and check the value of those cars, their market value and the amount they were
disposed of to the cronies of the previous administration. The government is very focused on delivering the dividends of
democracy. And definitely as a responsible government, it must ask questions
where it perceives a breach of the law. This will not, in any way, derail the
effort of this administration because it is being handled by individuals of
proven integrity and clean records. Illegality, if you allow it to thrive, will
damage the prosperity of the future. Across the world, leaders are made to pay for their action and
inaction. The first thing the governor did was to constitute committees across
important sectors from asset recovery to water supply and health care. This is
to enable the administration to deliver the much deserved dividends of
democracy