A violent clash reportedly occurred between Yoruba and Hausa youths in Ifewara, Osun state, the hometown of Pastor Enoch Adeboye, the general overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God. According to Sahara Reporters, the Sabo Market in Ifewara was razed, following the incident. Legit.ng gathers that the skirmish reportedly broke out after some Hausa youths had attacked a man identified as Demola, at a mining site around Oke Oguro, a village under Ifewara, earlier in the day. According to a source, Demola had been attacked by some Hausa youths working in mining sites around Oke Oguro and the attackers reportedly took an undisclosed amount of money from him. Reports state that the victim mobilized other youths in the town and launched an attack on the area where Hausa traders live, after he escaped from his attackers. The source said: “Demola was attacked by some Hausa youth in a mining site around Oke Oguro. They attacked him and took his money. “Demola later told other youths in the town what had happened and they mobilized and attacked the Sabo area where Hausa traders are living. “As far as I know, no life was lost, but Sabo market had been razed. Demola has been taken to an undisclosed hospital for treatment.” One resident identified only as Gbeminiyi, said one house in Sabo was set ablaze; but because there was a gas retail shop near the property, the fire escalated and affected others. The Osun state police command’s spokesperson, Folasade Odoro, said the situation had been brought under control. Odoro said: “We have deployed our men in the town. The situation is under control. No casualty, please.” The Osun state governor’s chief press secretary, Adeniyi Adesina, also said the police were on top of the situation. In a similar development, it was previously reported that a violent clash occurred between Yoruba and Hausa residents of Sabo area of Akure, Ondo state. Several people were reportedly injured in the fight, while houses and motorcycle were set ablaze during the clash. A source said the fight started after followers of a masquerader passed through the Old Garage area of Akure where some Hausas sell groceries. The followers were alleged to have attempted to disrupt the business of the Hausa traders which was resisted by the latter, leading to a clash. Source