Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The
Presidential Election Petition Tribunal (PEPT) has dismissed a petition
challenging the victory recorded by President Muhammadu and his party, the All
Progressives Congress (APC) in the last presidential election. The Coalition for Change
(C4C) and its presidential candidate, Geff Chizee Ojinika, had filed the
petition marked: CA/PEPTL/003/2019, in which they complained of unlawful
exclusion or misrepresentation and sought the cancellation of the election and
the conduct of a fresh presidential election. The petitioners had
complained that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) printed CC
and against its actual acronym of C4C, a development, they claimed worked to
their disadvantage. At the hearing of the
petition on Monday, their lawyer, Obed Agu stunned all when he announced that
the petitioners were no longer interested in prosecuting the petition. Agu applied to withdraw
the petition, an application the tribunal granted, in the absence of any objection
from lawyers to other parties to the petition. The tribunal, now headed
by Justice Mohammed Lawal Garba (the Presiding Justice of Lagos division of the
Court of Appeal), proceeded to dismiss the petition. With the dismissal of the
petition by the C4C and Ojinika, the tribunal is now left with three petitions. They are those filed by
the Hope Democratic Party (HDP) and Ambrose Owuru, who claimed to be the
party’s presidential candidate ( marked: CA/PEPC/001/2019); the People’s
Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar
(CA/PEPC/001/2019); and the People’s Democratic Movement (PDM) and Pastor
Aminchi Habu, listed as the party’s presidential candidate (CA/PEPC/004/2019). When the petition by the
HDP was called, a man, who claimed to be the party’s National Chairman, Tapre
Poland stood up and told the tribunal that the party did not authorize the
filing of the petition.
Poland particularly disowned the petition filed in the name of his party. He agreed with another
lawyer, who he said the party sent to the tribunal to discontinue the petition. Justice Garba adjourned
further proceedings in the HDP petition to June 13, while that of the PDM was
fixed for June 17 this year. On the petition by Atiku
and the APC, the judge adjourned till Tuesday for the hearing of all pending
motions. He announced that the tribunal will henceforth, sit at 9.30 am as
against the earlier sitting time of 10am. Agu told journalists,
after the tribunal’s sitting that his client’s decision to withdraw the
petition was that of the party, taken at its last National Executive Committee
(NEC) meeting. “I am not a member of the
party’s NEC. The decision to withdraw the petition was taken at the party’s
highest decision-making level. I was only instructed to give effect to the
decision,” Agu said. Earlier at the
commencement of proceedings, Justice Garba sought the cooperation of parties to
the petitions before the tribunal. He noted that time was of
the essence, but assured that, with the cooperation of parties, the panel could
make the best use of the time left. “I will like to renew the
call for the fullest cooperation of parties and their respective counsel that
will be appearing in the petitions before the Presidential Election Petitions
Court. “We are aware of the
constraint of time that has been imposed on the court by both the Constitution
and the Electoral Act for the hearing and determination of the petitions. “We are also aware that
we have almost gone halfway of the time we have for the hearing and
determination of the petitions,” Garba said. Livy Uzoukwu (SAN), who
led the legal team of Atiku and the PDP, assured that his team would accord the
panel “the necessary cooperation to ensure that the petition is expeditiously
heard.” Lead lawyer to President
Buhari, Wole Olanipekun (SAN), APC’s lawyer, Lateef Fagbemi (SAN) and lawyer to
the INEC, Yunus Usman (SAN) also assured of the cooperation. With Garba as the new
Chairman, other members of the panel are Justices Abdul Aboki (Abuja division),
Joseph Ikyegh (Benin division), Samuel Oseji (Lagos division) and Justice Peter
Ige (Abuja division). Some of the motions to be
heard by the tribunal on Tuesday include the 16 filed in relation to the
petition by Atiku and the PDP. Six of the motions are by
Atiku and the PDP, while the remaining 10 were filed by the respondents. Seven of the 10 motions
by the respondents are seeking the dismissal or striking out of the petition. The remaining three are
for permission to amend their papers and to bring their applications up at the
pre-hearing session.