By Olayinka Olawale Lagos – Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos on Thursday assured the new  Coordinator of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in the state of his administration’s support. Sanwo-Olu made the promise at the swearing-in ceremony of the 2019 Batch ‘B’ Stream I of corps members at the NYSC Orientation Camp in Iyana-Ipaja, Lagos. The governor, represented by  the Secretary to the state government, Mrs Folashade Jaji, welcomed the new  Coordinator, Mr Sunday Aroni, and wished him a successful tenure. Sanwo-Olu congratulated the corps members on their academic successes which qualified them for national service. He said that NYSC had, over the years, maintained the dreams of its founding fathers to promote understanding, unity and harmonious relationship among Nigerians. “I congratulate you on your individual academic successes, which qualified you for call up to national service. This is a step to a worthy journey in the service of your fatherland. “Over the years, the scheme has maintained the dreams of the founding fathers which essentially were to promote understanding, unity and harmonious relationship among the diverse people that make up Nigeria. “Worthy of mentioning and commendation is the role that the scheme has continuously played through the patriotic services and commitment of corps members in deepening our democracy. “Your participation in our electoral system, including the recent one that ushered in this administration, is worthy of commendation. “At this point, let me, on behalf of the state government, welcome the new state Coordinator, Mr Sunday Aroni, to Lagos State. “I assure you of our support so that you can succeed in your assignment,” he said. Sanwo-Olu charged the corps members to always reflect on the successes the scheme has recorded in the sustenance of national unity, integration and economic development. He urged them to strive to contribute to the feat through selfless commitment, dedication and active participation in all activities during the service year. “This orientation programme has been packaged to give you a solid foundation for a fulfilling service year, as well as prepare you for the challenges of your service and post service life. “I enjoin you to take all aspects of the orientation course seriously, as it has been uniquely structured to prepare you for the service year and beyond. “You must also ensure strict adherence to the rules and regulations of the camp as they are meant to ensure your safety and hitch-free orientation for everyone,” Sanwo-Olu said. Earlier in his address of welcome,  Aroni said that 2,568 corps members, comprising 888 males and 1,732 females, successfully completed their registration as at midnight of June 19. He said that the three-week orientation was characterised by para-military drills, lectures and leadership training. The coordinator said that the training  was designed to impact leadership  skills and emotional balance needed for a successful service year. He urged the corps members to actively participate in all camp activities as they would propel them into the service year on sound footing and guarantee their successes at the end of the programme. “Your Excellency sir, I wish to report that at the close of registration, a total of 2,568 prospective corps members were registered and are ready to be sworn into national service. “I am elated to report that since the orientation commenced on June 18, these young patriots have shown their allegiance and readiness to serve the nation by quickly adjusting to the regimented nature of the camp. “They have also exhibited a high level of dedication and commitment to orientation activities,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Acting Chief Judge of Lagos State, Justice Kazeem Alogba administered the oath of allegiance on the corps members. He was represented by Justice Owolabi Dabiri.