He spoke in reaction the the reports that he handed over the guns and one million bullets to the police a day to the inauguration of a new government in the state. See Amosun Surrenders 1000 AK47 Rifles, 4million Bullets Acquired Before 2019 Elections In a statement which Rotimi Durojaiye, his spokesman, issued on his behalf, Amosun said the biggest challenge that confronted the state when he assumed office in 2011 was insecurity. He said this prompted him to convene a security parley that gave rise to the Ogun State Security Trust Fund (STF) under the leadership of Sambo Dasuki, former national security adviser. He said following recommendations from the STF, the government got approval from the office of the NSA for the procurement of “13 units of Armoured Personnel Carriers (APCs), the 1000 units of AK 47 rifles, 2 Million rounds of ammunition,1000 units of Bullet proof vests and 500 bullet proof helmets and other security communication gadgets” He dismissed the allegation that he handed over the ammunition to the police because he tried to hide it from Dapo Abiodun, his successor, saying the incumbent governor of Ogun was among those who supplied the security assets. He did not give details of the arms and ammunition he handed over. “It is important to clarify that NOT A SINGLE AK 47 RIFLE was handed over at the event. The particular exercise of 28 May, 2019 was done openly in the full glare of the public and the media to ensure accountability, guarantee transparency and judicious use of the assets,” he said. “First, we sought and got approval to set up “OP MESA” for Ogun State. We followed this up with the specialized QRS unit. We committed substantial funds into procurement of hard and soft ware, and, myriad security assets to decisively combat our security challenges. “We got all necessary approvals from the Office of the National Security Adviser to procure the 13 units of Armoured Personnel Carriers (APCs), the 1000 units of AK 47 rifles, 2 Million rounds of ammunition,1000 units of Bullet proof vests and 500 bullet proof helmets and other security communication gadgets. Ogun State not only got approval to import these essential assets, the Federal administration under President Goodluck Jonathan, gave all requisite approvals to assist the State. “The Federal Government through the Office of the National Security Adviser (NSA) issued the State the End User Certificate Serial Number 000001123 dated 5th of March, 2012. The Federal Ministry of Finance also granted Import Duty Exemption Certificate through a letter from the Honourable Minister of Finance and Coordinating Minister of the Economy with Reference Number BO/R.10260/S.4/T.4/22 dated 10th April, 2012. Indeed the supplier was an accredited agent of the Nigeria Police Force nominated for the job by the Force who also monitored and supervised the transaction. The security materials were cleared through the Murtala Muhammed Airport and confirmed through Nigeria Customs Memo NCS/MMAC/012/S.1. The materials were publicly handed over to the Inspector General of Police MD Abubakar on 22nd April, 2012. “Without going into the details and thereby breaching conventions, suffice to say categorically that the AK47 rifles were supplied directly to the Nigeria Police, Ogun State Command. “The rest of the merchandise were securely kept in the approved designated armoury within the Government House precincts under police surveillance as it obtains in most Government Lodges, to guarantee exclusive use of the materials in Ogun state.”