By Martins Odeh Abuja – Blessing Mark-Onuh representing Otukpo/Ohimini Federal Constituency of Benue state has described late M.K.O Abiola as an “indisputable pillar’’ of the Country’s Democracy. Mark-Onuh who said this in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in Abuja, noted that Abiola’s spirited fight to institutionalise democracy had yielded dividend with about 20 years of unbroken democratic governance. The lawmaker, who was among the 360 parliamentarians inaugurated on Tuesday, explained that the zeal, energy and commitment of the late June 12 icon and his team deserved the posthumous recognition. “I will like to salute the courage of his late wife, Kudirat, who also paid the supreme price for democratic struggle, she was also an enigma. “I therefore, call on politicians to retrace their steps by ensuring that democratic tenets and ideals are respected as June 12 symbolises popular demands for civil liberty,’’ she said. On her success in the general election, Mark-Onuh ascribed the victory to God’s intervention, adding that her constituents needed a visionary and proactive representation. “I will like to cease this opportunity to thank both the national and state leaderships of my party, All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) for believing in me. “The development of Otukpo/Ohimini Federal Constituency of Benue remains uppermost in my heart and I vow not to fail the people,’’ she said. Comrade Paul Salem, Chairman, Benue State Chapter of APGA in a separate interview said Abiola was an “epitome of democracy’’. Salem further said that the political class should embrace Abiola’s good virtue of true service to the masses. “MKO Abiola was a wealthy businessman with indescribable expansive social and political goodwill. He was an outstanding philanthropist. These were parts of reasons Nigerians deferred religious leanings to vote for him. “I am not sure if we can boast of such a heavyweight champion of democracy amongst us as at today. “ I hope that the necessary change will come someday, where this wide gulf of political and religious differences will be closed. “We must make politics to be more service oriented as that will be the only period that true dividends of democracy will reach the grassroots,’’ Salem said. Salem explained that the election of Mark-Onuh was indicative of readiness of Benue people to embrace a political party with an enviable template for human development. NAN reports that Blessing Mark-Onuh is the daughter of former Senate President, David Mark of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). (NAN)