ABUJA – President-General of apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief John Nnia Nwodo, has vowed that the group would resist Fulani vigilantes in Igboland, while the pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, described the proposal as a provocative agenda.
The reactions came hours after the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) on Thursday called for establishment of Fulani Youth Vigilante body in the South-East to complement those in their host communities’ and other constituted security apparatus in the zone.
MACBAN tabled the proposal during the South-East Security Summit organised in Enugu by the South-East Chambers of Commerce, Mines and Agriculture (SECCIMA) in collaboration with South-East Governors Forum (SEGF).
In his presentation, National President of MACBAN, Alhaji Mohammadu Kirowa, had regretted that once insecurity was mentioned in Nigeria, the first idea that came to mind was Fulani herdsmen.
Speaking through his representative, MACBAN National Secretary, Alhaji Baba Usman Ngelzerma, he noted that South-East is a good host, which was the reason it condemned all forms of violence and criminality in the same manner patrons such as the Sultan of Sokoto, the Emir of Kano and the Lamido of Adamawa did.
MACBAN, however, said it wanted establishment of Fulani Youth Vigilante group, noting that the youth body would work with security agencies, the neighbourhood watch or vigilante to ensure security in all communities, as was done in Enugu State.
“We will solicit your support and cooperation in adopting dialogue where problems exist as a means of brokering peace and to report cases against our members to either the Fulani Youth Vigilante Group, state or local branch of the association,” Kirowa said.
But reacting to MACBAN’s call, Ohanaeze Ndigbo leader, Chief Nnia Nwodo, said Ndigbo will resist the proposal for the establishment of Fulani Youths Vigilante in Igboland, according to a Vanguard report this morning.
Accusing the herdsmen of violating Igbo women in their farms, among other crimes, Nwodo noted that if such request was granted the herdsmen, it will spell doom for Igboland.
Vanguard quoted him as saying: “Ohanaeze vehemently opposes any attempt by Miyetti Allah to establish any form of vigilante group in Igboland.
“These are people who have ravaged our farms, raped our women and slaughtered their husbands. As at today, they technically enjoy immunity from arrest and prosecution. They freely display AK-47 rifles not permitted to be used by civilians.
“Extending this measure to them will turn them into an army of occupation and invite unavoidable confrontations with our youths. We will resist such a policy with every might available to us.”
Reacting to the Miyetti Allah proposal, the pan-Yoruba socio-political orgnisation, Afenifere, described it as provocative.
The paper quoted Afenifere’s National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Yinka Odumakin, as describing the call as an insult, saying: “It is a provocative agenda which shows that there is a clear agenda to provoke war.
“The South East has come under the siege of marauding herdsmen with authorities in the land shying away from enforcing law and order.
“The height of it all is now this insulting call by Miyetti Allah. They should be careful how they poke their wicked fingers into the eyes of the people. The gentility of a lion is never a sign of cowardice.” (Vanguard) •Photo: John Nnia Nwodo