By Chibuike
Nwabuko Abuja
(Sundiata Post) – Group under the auspices of Network of Civil Society Organisations
in Nigeria has called for the suspension of Emir of Kano, Mallam Muhammadu
Sanusi in compliance with the recommendation of Kano State Public Complaints
and Anti-Corruption Commission over his alleged misappropriation of three
billion four hundred thousand naira of the Emirate. Recall that the commission which undertook an investigation of the alleged misappropriation of fund to the tune of three billion four hundred thousand naira (N3.4bn) leveled against Emir Sanusi recommended his suspension. The group
also condemned the intervention of the Alhaji Aliko Dangote and Governor Kayode
Fayemi in the alleged saga, describing it as anti-masses, suppression and at
variance with the anti-corruption fight of President Muhammadu Buhari. The Network
of Civil Society Organisations in Nigeria which made this known on Thursday in a
chat with newsmen in Abuja, disclosed that the recommendation by the Kano State
Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission is in order and highly
commendable as a bold step in the right direction to ensure a corrupt free
nation in line with the anti-corruption crusade by President Muhammadu
Buhari-led administration. According to
the group, Emir Sanusi’s suspension will in no small measure speed up the investigation
as he will no further delay or interfere on the operations of the commission as
he has always done. It however said that after the conclusion of investigation
and he is found innocent, the Kano State Government should immediately restate him
with all his entitlements but also should be made to face the law in the event that
the outcome is to the contrary to serve as deterrent to all public office
holders that believe they are above the law. The Network
of Civil Society Organisations in Nigeria also described as unacceptable the interference
by Alhaji Aliko Dangote and Governor Kayode Fayemi which halted investigation
of Emir Sanusi and called the state and federal government as well as other
anti-corruption commissions committed to ensuring a corrupt free Nigeria to
resist the action. The group said
that the decision of Kano state government to stop further investigation on the
alleged misappropriation of public fund based on the sudden intervention has
painted a very negative image against it and therefore urged the government to
retrace its step immediately so as to win back the masses confidence. It called on
the security agencies to be on red alert to ensure peace as there may be some
individuals trying to take advantage of the situation to cause chaos in the state. The civil
society group also called on Kano State Public Complaints and Anti- corruption
Commission to remain unbiased while investigating the matter.