There are any Nigerian celebrity eligible bachelors and spinsters at the moment. These are some of them. There is no gainsaying that the hoard of ravishingly gorgeous divas and extremely handsome dudes in the Nigerian show business have defied numeration. But what is more apparent is how fans seem to quickly lose thought of the fact that some of these celebrated acts have remained on the bachelor(-ette) list ever since their incursion into the industry. While some celebrities have pointed to “conflict of choice” as their reason for being single, others have decried having to compete for spouses amid pre-existing rigours and challenges for which the entertainment industry is known for. TheCable Lifestyle brings you a listicle of some delectable and eligible bachelors and bachelorettes in the Nigerian show business. Bear in mind that bachelors are men who are not married and have never been, while a bachelorette is an unmarried woman who is long due for marriage — whether previously married and thereafter divorced or simply otherwise. Female Acts Dominating our listicle of five eligible female celebrities in showbiz Nigeria are Tiwa Savage, Genevieve Nnaji, Eva Aloridiah, Toke Makinwa, and Yemi Alade. 1. Toke Makinwa Toke Makinwa, 34, is a leading Nigerian media personality who, in 2019, made her acting debut amid several of her giant strides in the industry. Although she keeps gaining traction amongst her peers, Toke appears to have remained single. In 2014, the author and on-air-personality, married Maje Ayida, whom she had been dating for close to eight years. She, however, separated from him a year later after discovering that he had impregnated his ex-girlfriend. The divorce was sealed by a Lagos high court on October 5, 2017, on the grounds that Ayida committed adultery. Toke once wished she could reverse her decision on getting married. Recently, she made the impression she was probably telling her own story when she advised female fans never to underplay their success as “only men with nothing to offer run from successful women.” 2. Tiwa Savage Tiwatope Savage, 39, is one of Nigeria’s finest Afropop vocalists who made the headlines after she left her former record label for UMG, a global label which boasts of the likes of Rihanna and Taylor Swift. Tiwa had, in 2018, filed for divorce from Tunji Balogun, her ex-husband, after efforts to resolve the differences that bedeviled their marriage proved abortive. Although she had a son from the union and was later reported to have made up with her ex, the singer seems to have moved on as she keeps making good music and, of course, giant career strides. Meanwhile, fans have continued to question her relationship with Wizkid, and the curiosity heated up after she played a video vixen in the award-winning singer’s hit single ‘Fever’. 3. Genevieve Nnaji Genevieve Nnaji‘s career, spanning over 20 years, has seen her garner a hoard of prestigious awards to her name. ‘Lionheart,’ her directorial debut became the first Nollywood movie to be bought over by ‘Netflix’, an American streaming platform. She is reported to have made close to N1,385,100,000 ($3.8million) from the deal. Although rumors had it that the 40-year-old mother of one — who birthed her daughter at the age of 17 — secretly got married to an undisclosed man in Portugal, Nnaji has neither admitted nor refuted the claims. Despite being among the class of gifted actresses whose love lives are kept away from public eyes, Genevieve seems to be enjoying her current relationship status as a single mother. 4. Yemi Alade Yemi Eberechi Alade‘s music video ‘Johnny’ recently hit 100 million views. Aside from this, the vocalist’s daring strides in the music scene has undoubtedly placed her among the country’s biggest exports. But, at some point, Yemi was rumored to be in relationship with Alex Ekubo, a Nollywood actor, who played her love interest in ‘Johnny’, and later Phyno and Flavour. She, however, debunked such claims. Alade also made no official comment about her potential man, leaving many to wonder why such a gorgeous diva will choose to be single. 5. Eva Alordiah Eva Alordiah, 30, is another enigma of ravishing beauty whose ever-radiant countenance never ceases to tickle admirers. Although the rap diva and entrepreneur was engaged to one Caesar Ume-Ezeoke in June 2016, she later split from him. She appears not to be involved with any man at the moment. Male Acts The male celebrities considered to be very much eligible for marriage but seem to have remained single are Don Jazzy, Alex Ekubo, Nonso Diobi, Osita Iheme, and Ayodeji Balogun. 1. Don Jazzy Simply known as the visionary record producer and CEO of Mavin Records, Don Jazzy, 36, is an influential figure in the Nigerian music scene who many are looking to know his current relationship status. What’s more? In April, the business mogul, whose real name is Michael Collins Ajereh, revealed why he is yet to get married. Although the gifted music producer clearly mentioned having found a girlfriend after fans repeatedly pressured him on several media platforms about his marriage, there are still widespread speculations that he might only have done so to put off the persistent questions. 2. Alexx Ekubo Alexx Ekubo is another one that has not evaded our listicle of the single and eligible. Renowned for his “lover boy” roles that have shaped our image of him in a positive way, Ekubo has bagged numerous awards owing to his flair for acting. Although there were widespread rumours that the Nollywood superstar was romantically involved with a very beautiful model, much of our findings seem to point the other way. Ekubo has kept details of his relationship and personal life away from prying eyes so much so that he was accused of being gay — a widespread speculation he critically debunked. 3. Nonso Diobi Nonso Diobi, 33, is a multiple award-winning Nollywood actor and film director. His remarkable flair for acting, from 2001’s ‘Border Line’ and onward, has seen him make a fortune for himself in the art. The gifted movie star is not in any serious relationship and claims to be taking his time when it comes to marriage. “I don’t want to rush into it because marriage is a lifetime commitment. It surprises some when I say I’m single but that is just the truth,” he was once quoted to have said while speaking about his marital status. 4. Osita Iheme Osita Iheme is renowned for his role as ‘Pawpaw’ in the 2003 comedy film ‘Aki na Ukwa’. Although rumours had swirled in 2017 that the 37-year-old star was supposed to tie the knot to a Ghanaian actress, our findings showed that the marriage never held. It also appears that the Nollywood star is still single and yet to have a wife. 5. Ayodeji ‘Wizkid’ Balogun If raving music acts were to be asked to stick out their heads, there is no doubt that Ayodeji Balogun (Wizkid) would take the lead. What’s more interesting is the fact that the superstar, not long ago, reportedly gave hints with respect to his marriage plans without making mention of anyone in particular. Of course, there’s the baby mama and Wizkid’s entrepreneur son. He also has two other boys from two different women, making him a father of three boys. The talented crooner also mentioned that “there are many women” who are dear to his heart. Wizkid, however, remains a celebrity bachelor that many are looking out for. Source