By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – A renowned maritime journalist, Ubon Akpan is dead. According to a statement by the Committee of Friends signed
by Elder Asu Beks, Chief Ubon died in the early hours of Thursday at the age of
56. He had a distinguished career as a practicing journalist with over 33 years’ experience in major media organisations, including The Punch and Champion newspapers. Although he covered many beats and served as state correspondent in a number of states, it was in the maritime industry that he excelled and found fulfillment as he transcended the reportage of the maritime beat to become an entrepreneur in the shipping industry.  In 1999, he teamed up with some close friends – Asu Beks,
Emeka Okoroanyanwu, Alban Opara and Pius Mordi – to co-found Maritime
Publications Limited which pioneered the publication of specialised journal
through Maritime Quarterly magazine. Reputed for his boundless energy, candour and commitment,
Ubon Akpan was also a former president of the Maritime Reporters Association of
Nigeria (MARAN) and a founding member of the League of Maritime Editors. He carved a niche for himself as an outspoken and forthright
commentator, analyst and stakeholder in the maritime industry. In his
commentaries and interventions, Akpan never wavered in pushing his conviction
that the potential in the maritime industry can drive Nigeria’s economy with
the right policy mix. Akpan was also devoted to his community and worked
assiduously for the uplifting of his people. He was a one-time president of the
Ibiono Ibom Welfare and Development Association (IWADA) in Lagos among various
capacities. He also served in the executive council of the Akwa Ibom State
Community (AKISCOM), Lagos branch. His early education began at the famous Hope Waddell
Training Institute, Calabar from where he proceeded to The Polytechnic, Calabar
where he obtained a Higher National Diploma (HND) in Mass Communication. He
went to University of Ibadan where he completed a program in Masters in
Communication Arts (MCA). Witty, boisterous and outspoken, Ubon as he was called by
his friends and colleagues longed for a better Nigeria welcoming to
entrepreneurship, a factor that made him shun paid employment to actualise his
dream of being a genuine stakeholder in Nigeria’s shipping industry. He is survived by his wife Esther, children and siblings. Burial arrangements as announced by his family.