Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Ohaneze Ndigbo youths have raised concerns over incessant killings and kidnapping by suspected herdsmen in the South eastern parts of the country. The Igbo apex socio cultural group youth wing declared a state of emergency on the onslaught of the herdsmen across the country. A statement on Sunday by the National leader of the body, Amb. Dr. Arthur Uchenna Obiorah, challenged concerned authorities to provide  security intelligence networks to battle the menace. The group vowed to lend its support when necessary to secure Igbo land from being taken over by the herdsmen. The statement partly reads: “Elected public officer holders in the executive and the legislative arms as well as the five south east governors and their counterparts in Delta and Rivers should fortify their internal security mechanism to enable them safeguard their territory from the invading Fulani marauders whose aim is geared towards annihilation of their people from their ancestral lands. “Ndigbo home and abroad should consider their position with utmost importance and join their elected officers to ensure Igbo land is secured from the invaders, who seems to have deployed their machinery to sack their people from their farmland in the bid to extend their pastoral grazing zones to the south east of Nigeria. “Igbo sons and daughters, the political class, people in diaspora and legal professionals from Igbo land should rise to their responsibility to ensure the systemic approach of the herdsmen be put on check and lives and property of Ndigbo are kept secured in their land.” The group vowed it will fold its arms and allow strangers who came to its land to transact business to resort to kidnapping and killing, insisting that “this nonsense has to be checked”. Among issues also raised at the emergency meeting was to publicly disclaim Comrade Okechukwu Isiguzo, the immediate past leader of the body, asking him to desist from speaking on behalf of the Igbo youths. Obiorah said the Igbo youths have raised serious concern to dissociate itself from any dealings or statement issued by Isiguzo. 