By Uche Bibilari Abuja – Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, has assured refugees of Federal Government’s commitment to responsive, accountable degree of services while ensuring security of their lives. Osinbajo gave the assurance on Thursday in Abuja, at an event to commemorate the 2019 World Refugee Day (WRD) with the theme: “Take a Step with Refugees’’. The vice-president was represented by Mrs Maryam Uwais, Former Special Assistant to the President on Social Investment programme. “The president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria is committed to responsive and accountable delivery of services while ensuring effective security of lives of refugees, asylum seekers and IDPs under his protection,’’ he said. According to him, the government will continue to stand in solidarity and love with hundreds and thousands of refugees in Nigeria. Osinbajo said WRD was an opportunity to celebrate the strength and courage of refugees and IDPs who were seeking for a safe haven; and the government would continue to stand with them in the face of tribulations. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) Mr Boss Mustapha, said the Federal Government had been, and would continue to be in the vanguard for protection of refugees and vulnerable people globally. Mustapha was represented by Mr Festus Dawudu, Permanent Secretary, Special Duties in the office. He said Nigeria had played host and provided durable solutions to many refugees from neighbouring African Countries in the past and still hosting many urban refugees in Lagos, Abuja, Kano, Calabar among others. The SGF on behalf of the Federal Government, appealed to leaders of the world to always pay attention to addressing the root causes of refugees and IDPs. “Effective, responsive and accountable security management cannot be an afterthought, it is a core aspect of our global operations, which we must always strive to improve,” he said. According to him, the occasion calls for sober reflections on global situations of causes and effects of forced displacement of persons in various communities that gives rise to refugee problem. Mrs Sadiya Farouq, Federal Commissioner, National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI) said the objective of the day was to support millions of families all over the world, who had lost their homes and dear ones because of violence or war. “On this day, we recognise the challenges and hardship that refugees face, we honour their courage and resilience in the face of overwhelming obstacles, and above all, we celebrate their many valuable contributions to nation building,” she said. She said the theme for 2019 WRD was in alignment with the African Union (AU) year of Refugees, Returnees and Internally Displaced Persons them: “Towards Durable Solutions to Forced Displacement in Africa’’. According to Farouq members of the international community, humanitarian organisations, civil society and individual citizens work tirelessly to assist these vulnerable populations. “As these efforts are being persistently sustained across the globe, more people are displaced by rising violence, insecurity and persecution than any other time on record. “The scale of this human suffering is almost unimaginable; celebrating this target group today is not enough in the face of given realities. “Therefore, the need for the world to adequately respond to refugees’ unprecedented challenges is beyond question and requires all of us to do more. “I wish to appeal to the UN, EU, AU, ECOWAS and all stakeholders and organisations to up their roles and responsibilities in crisis management, especially those hot spots and volatile zones of the world,” she added. According to her, 2.4 million people have been uprooted, including 2.1 million internally displaced persons in the Northeast Nigeria, more than 471,000 IDPs in Cameroon, Chad and Niger and about 228,000 refugees. She added that in spite of efforts by government and humanitarian agencies, more than 4.5 million people remained without food security and depended on aid. She, however, said that Nigeria had witnessed an upsurge in the number of asylum seekers and refugees mostly from countries such as Cameroon, Central African Republic, Syria and Turkey, among others. She said that currently, more than 35,000 Cameroonian refugees had been granted Temporary Protection Status (TPS) in Nigeria, adding that these were in addition to 261 urban refugees and 290 asylum seekers living in Nigeria. Farouq said that in Collaboration with UNHCR, NCFRMI had commenced the process of issuing refugee Convention Travel Documents (CTDs) to refugees, adding that 178 of them had been referred to Nigeria Immigration Service for bio-metric capturing. Dr Sintiki Ugbe, Commissioner, Social Affairs and Gender of ECOWAS Commission, said that WRD sought to proffer solutions to forced displacement and protection of displaced population, in line with the overall strategic vision of the commission. Ugbe said ECOWAS Commission had been working with member states and partners in providing sound legal instruments to prevent, manage and mitigate the effects of displacement within the region. She also said the commission had been responding to issues of displacements through donations and provision of food and non-food items to affected populations in the region. “To continue standing in solidarity with refugees, the ECOWAS commission is donating food and non-food items to refugees here in Abuja; and also using the occasion to provide assistance to two federal government secondary schools in the FCT,’’ she said. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that WRD is celebrated every 20th of June. (NAN)