By Chukwuemeka Opara Abakaliki – The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) assisted Value Chain Development Programme (VCDP), has injected over N10billion into the Ebonyi economy since it began operations in the state in 2014. Mr Sunday Ituma, IFAD—VCDP State Programme Coordinator (SPC) disclosed this on Wednesday in Abakaliki during the launch of farm inputs distribution to benefitting farmers for 2019. Ituma said that over 16, 000 farmers had benefited from the programme in the state within the period as evidences were abound to buttress the claim. “We have contributed over 70, 000 metric tonnes of rice paddy into the rice production system of the state, constructed over 42km of rural access-roads and over 60 culverts in benefiting Local Government Areas (LGA). “We have also for the first time, intervened in land development with over 200 hectares developed at Ezillo and the accompanying results are there for all to see,” he said. The state coordinator noted that for 2019, the IFAD-VCDP Country and National Offices have approved support to 1, 670 farmers in the state, who will cultivate 1, 670 hectares of land. “This will cost the programme over N130million as we will provide 50 per cent of the costs while the benefitting farmers though their various cooperative societies, will contribute 50 per cent matching grant. “The programme has also approved additional financing for its second phase after an excellent performance in its first phase of operation. “It has also approved the extension of its activities to additional three LGA of the state which include: Ivo, Ezza North and Ohaozara in addition to the five benefiting councils of Ishielu, Izzi, Ikwo, Ohaozara and Afikpo South,” he said. He commended the state government for its support to the programme through the payment of counterpart funds and warned the farmers not to sell the inputs distributed to them. The National Programme Coordinator (NPC) of IFAD—VCDP Dr Ameh Onoja, advised the farmers to judiciously utilise the inputs to enhance their agricultural capabilities. Onoja represented by Mr Chyka Unamma, IFAD-VCDP National Agricultural Production Adviser, said that the programme’s objective is to assist farmers to achieve self-sustenance after the programme ceases to be operational. “The record of the state government in the payment of counterpart fund is clean in our office and we also commend benefiting farmers for their cooperation with the programme. Dr Rita Okoro, Permanent Secretary- Designate of the state Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources, commended IFAD-VCDP for its numerous contributions to the enhancement of agricultural in the state. “The state government will continue to collaborate with IFAD-VCDP as it shares our ideal of making Ebonyi the highest food producing state in the country. Mr John Odi, one of the benefiting farmers thanked IFAD-VCDP for the inputs, noting that he will mobilise and ensure that beneficiaries in his area do not sell the inputs. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports inputs given to farmers include improved rice seedlings, cassava stems, fertilisers, agro-chemicals such as herbicides among others. (NAN)