By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Group under the aegis of Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) has taken the President of the 9th Senate, Senator Ahmed Lawan to the cleaners for sacking his special adviser on media, who is a cerebral media practitioner for mere reason that he has penned pieces that were critical of President Muhammadu Buhari. The CUPP who accused Ahmed Lawan of sacrificing competence on the alter of halleluyah politics said that it is a confirmation that Senator Ahmed Lawan is on a mission to turn 9th Senate into an extension of Buhari Aso Rock Bedroom. The Opposition Coalition CUPP while disclosed this on Friday in a statement signed by its spokesman, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, expressed displeasure that the Senate President, Senator Ahmed Lawan, could sacrifice competence and quickly withdraw the appointment of Dr. Festus Adedayo as his Special Adviser on Media based on pressure from the chieftains of the Buhari led govt. According to the opposition coalition, immediately the appointment of this cerebral media practitioner was announced, Buhari govt Kitchen members, Buhari Presidency supporters ,some social media warriors on the pay roll of the ruling All Progressives Congress and the Presidency went into overdrive and started mounting Pressure , faulting the well deserved appointment. “Their grouse was that the celebrated columnist has many times penned pieces that were critical of President Muhammadu Buhari who is the head of the Executive Arm of govt and so therefore cannot be allowed to Work with the head of the parliament who is a stooge of the Buhari government,” CUPP said. “It is surprising, to say the least, that the head of another arm of govt/Senate President Ahmed Lawan succumbed to the Pressure from Aso Rock and that of the paid social media warriors and quickly withdrew Dr. Adedayo’s nomination just for not been a stooge of the Executive arm of govt. “Opposition political parties view this development as primitive, show of intolerance and sacrifice of competence on the altar of Halleluyah politics. “Senator Lawan has, by this singular act, proved Nigerians right that the Senate under his leadership will be an annex of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led executive arm of government. “The CUPP hereby declares the Senate President as Buhari’s boy over his decision to sack his aide for refusing to pledge loyalty to the President. “Senator Ahmed Lawan has, with this decision, left no one in doubt that the Ninth Senate under his leadership is an extension of Buhari Aso Rock bedroom. That is his mission and he will go to any length to achieve this. The CUPP therefore called on all Senators with integrity and love for Nigeria’s hard earned democracy to resist Ahmed Lawan’s plan to turn members of staff of the parliament to Aso Rock servants and Halleluyah boys before it is too late. “Let it be known that every action taken by individuals to either save or destroy this our democracy will be recorded against such person for posterity sake, CUPP added. 