Abuja (Sundiata Post) –  Int’l Society for Civil Liberties & Rule of Law (Intersociety), has condemned alleged premeditated  murder of  innocent citizens by security agencies, informing that  quackery, karma and commercial soldiering are running riot on Nigerian  Army headed by Lt Gen Turkur Buratai. The group disclosed this while reacting to the recent killing of three policemen in Taraba state and the killing of an innocent commercial cyclist in Aba in a statement issued on Friday signed by  Obianuju Joy Igboeli, Head of Civil Liberties & Rule of Law, Evangeline Chidinma Udegbunam, Head of Campaign & Publicity Dept and Emeka Umeagbalasi, Board Chair. The statement which alleged that “It is
likely that the bloods of the slain and the maimed are ceaselessly on rampage and
seeking justice reads in full: “The recent killing by soldiers of the Nigerian Army of three gallant intelligence police officers and a civilian and injuring of scores of others in the line of their special duties in Taraba State; and the premeditated murder of an innocent commercial cyclist in Aba are all clear indication that the trio of quackery, karma and commercial soldiering are chronically running riot on Nigerian Army presently headed by Lt Gen Turkur Buratai. Professionally speaking, the killings particularly those perpetrated in Taraba State are punishably premeditated and have nothing to do with ‘collateral fatalities’ and ‘mistaken identity’. The above was the position
of Int’l Society for Civil Liberties & Rule of Law,
Intersociety, as contained in a statement issued today, 9th August
2019 and signed by Lawyers Obianuju Joy Igboeli, Head of Civil Liberties &
Rule of Law, Evangeline Chidinma Udegbunam, Head of Campaign & Publicity
Dept and Emeka Umeagbalasi, a Criminologist & Graduate of Security Studies
and Board Chair of Intersociety. Facts Of The Matter: Soldiers of the 93 Battalion of the Nigerian Army, Takum in Taraba State, had on Tuesday, 6th August 2019, opened fire in a bizarre, brazen and murderous manner at a group of crime detective and intelligence personnel of the Taraba State Police Command, joined by some personnel of the IGP’s Intelligence Response Team (IRT). The said detective and intelligence officers were attacked along Ibi-Jalingo Road in Taraba State. Led by ASP Felix Adolije, the police crack squad members were escorting the just arrested notorious kidnap and possibly jihadist kingpin, Alhaji Hamisu Bala Wadume, when the soldiers opened fire, killing three police officers and a civilian and injuring scores of other police personnel in their convoy. The soldiers after the shooting and killing were reported to have facilitated the escape of the arrested terror/kidnap kingpin. The Army later issued a statement claiming that ‘the shooting and killing was done in error; by mistaking the victims to be kidnappers’. Similarly in Aba, Abia State,
Southeast Nigeria, another killing by a solider of a commercial motorcyclist
along Ikot-Ekpene Road on 7th August 2019 was reported. Citizen
Chimaobi Nwaogu Uzoukwa, a native of Amaise, Umuokereke-Ngwa in Obingwa Local
Government Area of Abia State was chased after by a soldier and shot dead in
his father’s compound. The killing was in connection with a N100 army roadblock
extortion or gunpoint bribery, which is now deeply entrenched in the roadblock
modus operandi of the military and police personnel deployed in the Southeast
and South-south regions of Nigeria. The killer-soldier was
attached to the Ohanze Army Post in Obingwa Local Government Area in the
commercial city of Aba. The militarization of Aba and its environs is
coordinated by the 144 Battalion of the Nigerian Army located at Asa Community,
near Aba, which is under the 14 Brigade, Ohafia in Abia State. Citizen Chimaobi
was killed by the soldier for refusing to part with N100 note at a nearby Army
roadblock. The killer-soldier had flagged down another commercial motorcycle
and ordered him to go after the slain cyclist following his refusal to part
with N100 at a nearby Army roadblock. When the slain ran for his dear life and
made it to his father’s compound, the armed soldier alighted, shot him dead and
jumped back to the commercial that brought him and fled. The incident was also confirmed by a family member of the deceased, who is the immediate past Chief Press Secretary to former Gov Rochas Okorocha of Imo State, Mr. Ebere Uzoukwa, who further complained of ‘unwholesome and criminal extortion of soldiers mounting roadblocks at Afo Di Mkpa Ohanze and Ukpakiri’, all in Aba and environs. Till date, the authorities of the 144 Battalion at Asa and their superiors at 14 Brigade, Ohafiaas well as the Enugu 82 Division have all gone deaf and dumb; possibly looking for lies to tell the Nigerian public. Karma, Quackery & Commercial
Soldiering On Rampage Karma: Karma is
at work because the Nigerian Army under Lt Gen Turkur Buratai has so much
killed, massacred and maimed the innocent, unarmed and defenseless Nigerians
now in their thousands since August 2015 with impunity and reckless abandon
that the spirits of the slain have become restive and restless with a possible
heavy curse placed on the Army to ‘never cease to kill and maim
unprofessionally’. It is also likely that the bloods of the slain and the
maimed are ceaselessly on rampage, seeking justice. The restlessness, anger and
vengeance of the slain from their cosmic abodes exemplified by the recent
premeditated killing of police officers in the line of duty in Taraba State is
also a way of reminding all Nigerians that this month, August 2019, makes it
four years since the Lt Gen Buratai led Nigerian Army launched its atrocious
and murderous campaigns against the innocent, unarmed and defenseless Nigerian
populations; leading to massacre of thousands and maiming of thousands too. It
is particularly reminded that August 2015 was the official commencement month
of the military atrocities in Nigeria; which started with mass murder of dozens
of unarmed and defenseless citizens of Igbo Ethnic Nationality in Eastern
Nigeria; followed by killing of not less than 1000 annual faith-procession
Shiite Muslims and maiming of over seven hundred others in Zaria, Northern
Nigeria. As at the time of
commencement of the massacre and maiming; till date, the victims had never used
or advocated for violence such as resorting to armed resistance or taking up
arms against Nigeria or any part thereof. Many of them were killed or maimed
while engaging in annual religious procession, per Shiites or protests of
peaceful nature including picketing, sedentary rallies and prayers, night
vigils and street protests. Others were killed or maimed while going about
their legitimate businesses. Till date, all those who perpetrated the
atrocities are still left intact with impunity in their service uniforms in the
Nigerian Military and Police. In modern military tradition
across the world, it is better for ten soldiers to die so as to save an
innocent soul. It is also a taboo and height of professional quackery to kill
an innocent or engage in the massacre of persons or property destructions not
classified as ‘military necessity’; but in the case of Nigerian Army
under Lt Gen Buratai, a major parameter to determine ‘professional soldiering’
is expressly rested on number of unarmed, defenseless and innocent civilians
soldiery killed or massacred and maimed as well as number of criminal persons
and entities shielded from crimes or aided to commit same; such as Jihadist
Fulani Herdsmen and their registered mother bodies. Past Atrocities Of The Nigerian Army
& Ors: Corroboratively, the killings include
killing of: (a) 480 unarmed, defenseless and innocent
citizens of the Igbo Ethnic Nationality and maiming of over 500 others in
Southeast and South-south (August 2015-September 2017), (b) killing of 236
Christian IDPs and injuring of scores of others in Kale-Balge in Borno State
(Jan 2017), (c) killing in conjunction with the Nigerian Air Force of 50 rural
Christians and injuring of others in Numan, Adamawa State (December 2017), (d)
mass suffocation and proxy killing of 240 civilian detainees including 29
infants at Giwa Military Barracks in Borno State (AI Report 2016). Others are: (e)
massacre of not less than 1,000 members of Shiite Muslims and injuring of over
700 others in Zaria, Kaduna State (December 2015), (f) bullet-killing of no
fewer than 250 Shiite Muslims and injuring of others in their hundreds between
Oct 2016 and July 2019 majorly in Kaduna and FCT, (g) rifle-killing of 159
children and injuring of hundreds of others in Northeast Nigeria (UN Report
2017) and (h) scores among over 40 unarmed citizens including voters and party
agents killed in the Feb 23 Presidential  and the March 2019
Governorship Polls particularly in Rivers and Bayelsa States (i.e. killing
of Dr. Ferry Gberegbe and Mrs. Ibisaki Amachreee in Rivers State). These are
just to cite a few of the military atrocities in Nigeria since August 2015. Quackery: Quackery also
played a major role in the referenced Taraba killings by soldiers of the
Nigerian Army. From every parameter of measurement of modern intelligence and
ICT driven soldiering or man-mental-machine soldiering, the
present Nigerian Army is the crudest, and most unintelligent, anachronistic,
democratically incompatible and ethno-religiously divided branch of the
Nigerian ‘military since 1863 when it was colonially formed. The Nigerian Army is so
politicized that it now supervises the writing of poll results, snatching and
stuffing of ballot boxes and killing and maiming of voters and INEC and party
agents (i.e. killing of Dr.Ferry Gberegbe and Mrs. Ibisaki Amachreee in Rivers
State). It is also tribally and religiously lopsided in composition, ranking
and posting. Professional ethics including moral conscience and corporate
integrity are speedily departing the Army; to the extent that spinning and
lies have become its major policy. The Nigerian Army under Buratai hardly
accepts responsibilities for its personnel misconducts and
blunders.  The public position taken by the NA in the case of recent
killing of policemen in Taraba State is a clear case in point. Apart from being chronically
guilty of inter-agency professional trespassing, the Nigerian
Army is dangerously overstepping its bounds particularly in matters of internal
policing, which the Army professionally knows nothing about except exercise ofpower
of arrest and peripheral crime scene gathering of raw facts and their
subsequent transfer to the Police. Specifically, the Nigerian Army is not
properly trained to ‘catch kidnappers’ or ‘armed robbers’ and other domestic
violent criminals as well as electronic and victimless criminals such
as cyber criminals and student cultists or drug addicts or prostitutes. The quackery exhibited in the
instant case (Taraba killings) is a clear case in point where elements of commercial
soldiering are also likely to have played out.  Part of the
Army’s quackery in the instant case was total disregard to common operational
intelligence. It must be pointed that professional security operatives imbued
with sufficient intelligence and operational expertise; are those who ‘catch
armed robbers or kidnappers in their hideouts than when they are on rampage’. Apart from acting
professionally and minimizing collateral fatalities in the line of operation,
which the above offers, the ‘kidnappers’ or ‘armed robbers’ as human beings and
natural beneficiaries of the fundamental human needs have time to defecate, shower,
sleep or rest, womanize, eat and drink, visit friends, buy personal needs, move
innocently or harmlessly in their neighborhoods and watch sporting events. And
by so doing, they are not usually armed doing them. It takes effective mental
and electronic intelligence to demystify them especially when not on
rampage.  It is also obvious from available facts that the Police
professionally arrested the terror kingpin in his hideout, only for the
soldiers to infect the successful operation with their quackery and
conspiratorial intents. We are therefore compelled to
ask the Nigerian Army the following questions in connection with the said
Taraba killings: how come the soldiers opened fire, killing three
policemen and a civilian and injuring scores of other officers, but left the
culprit who was in handcuff unhurt and facilitated his escape? On whose agency
or inter-agency intelligence did the soldiers rely on before embarking on such
shooting mission? Is it not correct to say that by ‘rescue’ in the instant case
and going by what played out, the Army meant ‘rescuing the kidnap suspect and
shielding him from crime at the expense of lives of three gallant policemen and
a civilian’? Others are: Is there
something the Nigerian Army is not telling Nigerians in the instant case? Is
there not likelihood of ‘commercial soldiering or ethno-religious esprit de
corps in the entire saga (i.e. rescue of the kidnap/terror kingpin)? What are
the ethno-religious identities of the soldiers involved including their leader(s)?
What are their antecedents in the line of their entire operations in Taraba
State now and before? What is the ethno-religious identity or background of the
said kidnap kingpin, a Fulani, an Hausa, a Kaunuri; a Jihadist or a Kidnapper
or both? As disclosed by the Nigeria Police Force Headquarters, ‘one of the
‘customers’ of the kidnap kingpin was an oil magnet who was kidnapped and
released after a ransom of N100m was paid; is it correct to say that the
soldiers and their leaders in the State know something about such ‘juicy jungle
deals’? Commercial Soldiering: While
elements of commercial soldiering are likely not to be ruled out in the
case of the Taraba killingsby soldiers of the Nigerian Army, it
fully played out in the killing by a solider of a commercial cyclist in Aba,
along Ikot-Ekpene Road on 7th August 2019.  Intersociety had
severally documented and still documents cases of roadblock extortion by
personnel of the Nigerian Military and Police Force stationed on most of the
roads in the Southeast. The documentation had found that there are over one
hundred military (army and navy) roadblocks in the Southeast with each going
home daily with N50, 000-N100, 000 or N5m-N10m The Navy Checkpoint at the
Atani-Ogwuikpere Federal Road, near Onitsha Uga Junction is the most
‘lucrative’; as its personnel go home daily with not less than N200, 000.
Another review and updates (from August 2015-August 2019) are already in the
making. In Solidarity With Nigeria Police Force Over
Taraba Killings: In keeping with our firm resolve to continuously and tirelessly
advocate for the betterment of the Society and its social forces including the
military and the police; and our insistence that ‘the right things must be done
and at the right time’, we deeply and sincerely condole the authorities of the
Nigeria Police Force over the loss of their three gallant personnel and a
civilian in the hands of the said ‘commercial and quack soldiers’. We also
sympathize with others that were injured. It has been our firm position
that the Nigerian security forces and policing agencies must go for man-mental-machine
(electronic) intelligence and securitization approaches in matters of
public security and policing in Nigeria. A knowledge and acculturation of same
drastically reduces human rights abuses which have now risen to industrial
scale in the country. On the other hand, lack of technical know-how in same
aggravates human rights abuses in a large or industrial scale. It is
exceptionally commendable, for instance, that the said kidnap kingpin was
professionally arrested alive and unhurt before the murderous soldiers messed
up the successful operation. This was possible because of the use of
professional intelligence and crime scene compatible personnel. Condemning The Death Of Shiite Muslims In
Police Custody: We strongly condemn the Nigeria Police Force particularly its
FCID/SARS over the recent death in its custody of not less than three injured
Shiite Muslims, who were shot and injured on July 22 during a protest; before
being dumped to bleed to death in their custody. They are also 15 others
including two minors languishing in the custody without adequate treatments.
The reports of invasion of hospitals where the injured Shiite members were
admitted for treatment and their abduction by Police SARS and soldiers are also
totally condemned. These are clear breaches of the Chapters Two and Four of the
Constitution and the Nigeria’s international or Treaty Rights Laws. Same strong condemnation goes
for the use of live bullets by Police and Army in the policing of public
assemblies in Nigeria as well as reckless use of out-station and custodial
torture and other inhuman and degrading treatments or punishments. It is
saddening and disheartening that despite the recent enactment of the Gunshot
Wound Victims Act and Anti Torture Act of 2017,the authorities of the
Nigeria Police Force still allow the use of same. We therefore join Amnesty
Int’l in calling for thorough investigation of the said custodial deaths
including dismissal of senior and junior officers involved and total adherence
to the provisions of the two Acts and their mother provisions in the country’s
Constitution. Saying No To Joint Army-Police Investigation
Board: By creation and law, the Nigerian Army’s growing long tails must
be cut to its statutory sizes. The Army and the Police do not compete under
democratic setting. Professionally, Army is a quack in matters of management of
democratic dispensation including social deviances and crime controls; except
in internal or external armed conflicts. As a matter of fact, Nigerian
Army is an interloper in matters of substantive criminal investigations. The
Army is totally subject to the civil authority and its policing; exclusively
managed by the Nigeria Police Force. That is to say that the Army cannot
arrogate unless it is democratically arrogated by the country’s democracy
policing general overseer (the NPF). Under civil authority arrangement in a
democratic setting, the Nigerian Army must civilianize or democratize its
policies and conducts or be permanently cocooned to the
Barracks. Therefore arrogating to
itself the powers of a general overseer in substantive
criminal investigations under democratic dispensation is a height of
inter-agency intimidation and brandishing of professional quackery. In the
instant case, therefore, the call by the Army to set up and conduct a joint
investigation with the Police into the instant case is unknown to the tenets of
democracy and modern policing criminal investigations. In law and criminology, it is
settled that when a crime is forensically mirrored and found to have sufficient
elements of circumstantial evidence, further investigation needed becomes very
infinitesimal. That is to say that the Nigerian Army must fish out the
killer-soldiers involved, vicariously and directly, and have them
court-marshaled and dismissed; after or before which they shall be handed over to
the authorities of the Nigeria Police Force for substantive prosecution in a
democratic court. The Army authorities
including the COAS, the GOC and Brigade and Cantonment commanders in charge of
the Area (Northeast and its State of Taraba) must be summoned bodily by the
Police High Command Headquarters investigating the matter and they must
cooperate fully throughout the investigations. Same are demanded in the case of
killing in Aba of late Citizen Chimaobi Nwaogu Uzoukwa (a defenseless
commercial cyclist) by a soldier attached to the 144 Battalion of the Nigerian
Army at Aba and Asa, under 14 Brigade, Ohafia; generally commanded by the GOC,
82 Division, Enugu, Southeast Nigeria.