By Callistus Agwaza, Jalingo Abuja (Sundiata Post) – After over a hundred years of drinking water from ponds with animals miles away from home,  the Community and Social Development Projects CSDP has provided portable water to the Boboto village in Yorro Local government area of Taraba state. Kpanti Sindi Shonvo village head of Boboto, in who joined other members of the community to celebrate the relief brought to the community by CSDP told our correspondent that,  lack of portable water source has always been the problem of the community since they settled in the area over a hundred years ago. Shonvo said that successive governments in the state have promised to bring water to the community after listening to the plight of the people but always failed. He narrated that the people had to travel to hours to the nearest pond to fetch water and it became extremely difficult during the dry season when they had to spend agonising hours for the pond to gather so they could fetch. “It has been a very difficult experience for us. I am so excited that the state governor Darius Ishaku, in collaboration with the CSDP was listened to our cry and has brought this succour to our people. “In the past,  our women had to go to the pond that is very far away from here to go and fetch water. That is the same pond where our animals also drink. During the day season,  some of our children will even stop going to school because of water. They will spend long hours at the pond waiting their turns to fetch water. All of that is put to rest now. “With this borehole in our community now, half of our problem is solved. Everyone is happy. The men,  women, children, our animals and those making Burukutu (local beer) for us are all excited and happy.” Some of the people who spoke to our correspondent expressed overwhelming joy over the development. According to thirteen years old Veronica Santi, “now I don’t have to go to school late every day and we will continue going to school even during the day season when we used to stop going to school because of water”. Similarly, Joseph Shonva, a physically challenged man told out correspondent that his “physical disabilities and the inconveniences that come with it have been reduced to a great extent as I don’t have to crawl for hours just to go and take my bath and wash my clothes. Water is right at the back of my house and I feel very complete now”.