Nick Kyrgios overcame early back spasms to get the better of Russia’s Daniil Medvedev in a pair of tiebreakers and win the Citi Open in Washington on Sunday. The Australian won 7-6(6) 7-6(4) over a frustrated world number nine Medvedev for his sixth career ATP Tour victory. Kyrgios did not face a single break point and hit 18 aces, including two to close out the final. “It’s great to get the win, but I proved to myself and a lot of people backing me that I still have it and can produce at the highest level,” said Kyrgios, who defeated the tournament’s number one seed Stefanos Tsitsipas in Saturday’s semi-final. “This week is probably one of the best weeks of my life in tennis,” the 24-year-old said. Kyrgios, mixing baseline rallies with drop shots, came from 4-1 down in the opening tiebreak to win it and took a medical time-out after the set, which seemed to help relieve the back spasms that had him stretching on the court during changeovers. “I had some back spasms on the right side of my back,” the Australian said. “I haven’t played that much tennis in the last couple of months so this week the load has been pretty stressful.” The tension of the match no doubt added to the stress. “We got very lucky to get out of the first set,” Kyrgios said. “It was 5-2 and I got pretty lucky on some of those points. It could have easily him standing in this position.” He still had trouble with Medvedev’s serve, the Russian winning 80% of his service points for the match. Kyrgios eventually tied the second set at 6-6 and claimed the victory, his second of the year, in another tiebreak. Before serving for the win, the Australian, as he had done twice previously in the match, went to a spectator to consult on where to serve. Kyrgios then delivered a rocket for the win and fell on his back in relief. (Reuters) Former world number one Andy Murray took another big step in his comeback from hip surgery by beating fellow Brit Kyle Edmund 7-6(4) 1-6 6-4 in the second round of the Citi Open on Wednesday. The 31-year-old Scot blasted a backhand cross-court return winner on match point to end the… August 2, 2018 In "Sports" Miami    -    Roger Federer suffered a shock 3-6 6-3 7-6(4) defeat to Australian wildcard Thanasi Kokkinakis on Saturday that will cost the Swiss his world number one ranking and leaves the Miami men’s tournament wide open. With defending champion Federer and six-times Miami Open winner Novak Djokovic exiting early, the… March 25, 2018 In "Sports" Monte Carlo - Rafa Nadal produced a clay court masterclass to pick apart fellow Spaniard Roberto Bautista Agut 6-1 6-1, as the world number two began his Monte Carlo Masters title defence in stunning fashion on Wednesday. Playing his first match since injuring his knee at Indian Wells in March, … April 18, 2019 In "Sports"