Oyo State Governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde, has appointed Mr. Adekanmbi Sunday Ayodele as his Executive Assistant on Persons with Disability. The Governor, in the letter of appointment conveyed to Adekanmbi by his Chief of Staff, Chief Oyebisi Ilaka, urged the Executive Assistant to work for the upliftment of the status of all persons living with disability in the state. A statement signed by the Special Assistant on Media to the Governor, Mr. Moses Alao, indicated that Governor Makinde expressed the hope that Adekanmbi, would discharge his duties with absolute loyalty and dedication. Adekanmbi has, according to the statement resumed office. The statement noted that Adekanmbi’s appointment demonstrated Governor Makinde’s determination to give special attention to persons living with disabilities. Adekanmbi, a lawyer and former Special Assistant on Disability Matters to the Governor of Oyo State between 2006 and 2011, graduated from the University of Edingburgh, Scotland, United Kingdom, before proceeding to the Nigerian Law School, Lagos for his B.L between 1993 and 1994. Earlier, he had been trained at the Nigerian Training Centre for the Blind, Ogbomoso. The new Executive Assistant has worked in several capacities as Technical Adviser to the late Mrs. Stella Obasanjo on Child Care Trust Fund; Consultant on Community Relations to Mobil Unlimited; Consultant to the United Nations Department of Rehabilitation and Relief Services and Director, Disability Empowerment Solution. In 2001, he had a brief stint as a television presenter, anchoring the programmeBeyond The Limit, an awareness programme for persons with disability. Adekanmbi has won many local and international awards, including the best-developed blind of the year awarded by the Disabled People International at the World Disability Summit held in Colorado, USA in 1997; award of excellence by the Royal Institute for the Blind, London; award of Master of Hope by the National Federation of the Blind, Houston, Texas as well as the Vocational Service Award by the Rotary Club of Osogbo, among others.