By Akeem Abas Ibadan –   Bishop Wale Oke, the National Deputy President, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), says churches in Nigeria are deviating from the cause of soul winning. Oke made the observation on Tuesday in Ibadan while hosting the leadership of Foursquare Gospel Church, Lagos. The News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) reports that Oke is also the Presiding Bishop of Sword of the Spirit Ministries, Ibadan. NAN also reports that the delegation of Foursquare church led by the outgoing General Overseer, Rev. Felix Meduoye, had visited Oke to introduce the new General Overseer-elect, Rev. Sam Aboyeji. According to the renowned cleric, the focus of most churches recently and those behind them is the pursuit of mundane issues that are not preparing people, especially Christians, for eternity. He expreseed regrets that churches were fast losing focus by drifting from their primary charge of assignment, which he said, was to enlist people into the kingdom of God. “My concern is the church is drifting. We have left our primary assignment of soul-winning to the pursuits of other lesser things. ”Yes, money is good, but everything should not be made to centre around prosperity, ” he said. The cleric called on pastors to reorder their priorities by making God’s charge their main focus and genuinely win souls so as to change ”the sagging world.” Oke, who thanked the leadership of the Foursquare Church for counting him worthy to be visited, commended Meduoye for his sterling leadership qualities that made the church cisis-free. He urged Aboyeji, the incoming GGeneral Overseer of the church to be humble and emulate his predecessors. Earlier, Meduoye informed Oke that the process that produced Aboyeji was transparent, saying this aided the seamless and rancour-free transition in the church. “Our transition in the church is a four-stage process. There is no inconsistency, the process was very transparent and seamless. In fact, Nigerian government needs to learn from us how election should be conducted,” Meduoye said. Aboyeji in his brief remarks, assured that he would not deviate from the right path laid by his predecessors in further taking the church to greater heights. (NAN) By Femi Ogunshola Ilorin, - A mild drama occurred on Sunday when the All Progressives Congress (APC) Deputy Governorship candidate in Kwara, Mr Kayode Alabi, visited Christ Apostolic Church (CAC), Gaa Akanbi to appeal for calm following postponement of the general elections. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that… February 17, 2019 In "News" Adeboye, Oyedepo, Kumuyi, Others Ask Students to Snub Arabic Studies Classes July 2, 2017 In "News" MINNA - The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Niger Chapter, has asked its members to desist from handshaking during church services to curb the Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) in the state. The Niger CAN Chairman, Rev. Musa Dada, disclosed this on Tuesday in an interview with the News Agency of… August 20, 2014 In "News"