Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The cleric, leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), was flown to India on Monday following a Kaduna court order last week. Shiite leader, Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, has alleged that the condition at the Indian hospital he was taken to is worse than that of Nigeria. He said he plans to
return to Nigeria to assess the situation. Mr El-Zakzaky stated
this in an audio message that has since gone viral. PREMIUM TIMES has
confirmed the authenticity of the audio. The cleric, leader of
the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), was flown to India on Monday following a
Kaduna court order last week. He had requested to be
allowed to travel to India for advanced medical treatment following the
deterioration of his health and that of his wife, Zeenah, in detention. Both of them have been
detained since December 2015 after a clampdown by soldiers who killed at least
347 IMN members. THE EL-ZAKZAKY AUDIO In the audio, Mr
El-Zakzaky accused the Nigerian government of frustrating his medical treatment
in India. Speaking in Hausa, he
said the situation at the hospital in India is “pathetic and worrisome”. Mr El-Zakzaky said the
management of Medanta Hospital, New Delhi, had been threatened not to admit him
for treatment. “The hospital
officials received us well they told us that they parked two ambulance
vehicles, deceiving the crowd while taking us out through another way, saying
that it was for our own safety. “On getting to the
hospital, we were placed under a tighter security situation worse than what we
have been witnessed in Nigeria. We are currently more confined than when we
were in Nigeria, worse than a prison setting. “Contrary to what was
agreed before our arrival, that our own personal doctors would supervise this
treatment. Now they’ve changed the arrangement. So, we objected receiving
treatment from strange doctors without the supervision of our own trusted
physicians,’’ he noted. In the audio, the IMN
leader said he wants to return to Nigeria to source for a reliable and trusted
hospital among those countries that offered help. “There are some other
countries that volunteered to help which include Malaysia, Turkey,’’ Mr El-Zakzaky said.