A teenage girl who was sexually assaulted inside IDP camp has given birth to a baby. The little girl gave birth at a hospital A 10-year-old orphan was dumped at a hospital in Benue state while experiencing labour pains and the child has now given birth after having to undergo Caesarean section due to the small size of her pelvis. According to Chigozie Effe who shared the news on Facebook, the child named Masenengen Targba was dumped at General Hospital Markurdi located at Northbank by an unknown person in the early hours of Sunday, August 4, 2019. She was in so much pain as it was time to have her baby, but surgery needed to be carried out and she could not afford it. Upon interrogation, it was discovered that she is an orphan from Tiv in Benue state, but has been living in an Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) Camp located in Benue State. It is in the camp that she was raped and impregnated. Eventually, a Good Samaritan named Mr Ukan took her to Foundation Memorial Hospital, Makurdi, Benue State, where Dr Ijoko and Dr Yima carried out an operation to deliver her of her daughter in the early hours of today, August 5. The identity of the man who got the child pregnant is still unknown but it was gathered that Masenengen was r*ped multiple times before she took in. By Funmilayo Adeyemi   Makurdi -   The Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) at the Abaagana Camp, Makurdi, have continued to express worry over lack of basic social amenities in the camps and exclusion from the society. Some of the IDPs expressed their concerns during the assessment tour of the IDPs… September 29, 2018 In "News" Maiduguri - Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Maiduguri on have commended the UNFPA for providing humanitarian and psychosocial support services in Borno. Representatives of the IDPs made the commendation during an assessment tour of one of the camps at WTC, Maiduguri, by a team from the UNFPA headquarters in Abuja.… November 1, 2015 In "News" By Philip Obaji Jr.‎ Modupe Ozolua spends most of her time working with Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in northeastern Nigeria. She’s seen a lot. But when she visited an IDP camp in Yola, Adamawa State, in April to distribute relief items to victims of the Boko Haram insurgency, she was… June 6, 2015 In "News"