Revelations have emerged why the trigger happy soldier shot dead Chimaobi Nworgu, a commercial motorcyclist, from Amaise Umuokerengwa in Obingwa local government area of Abia State. Saturday Independent gathered from close sources that Abia State environmental sanitation held on July 27, the suspect, identified as Corporal Ajayi, who has been apprehended alongside his two colleagues, in their usual manner wanted to forcefully recruit the deceased for some sanitation exercises within their barracks, which is a shouting distance from the checkpoint, but the deceased refused. Sources also revealed that it is a common knowledge within the area that Ajayi and his colleagues would conscript passers-by and shop owners within the checkpoint into forced clean up exercises during environmental cleanup exercises of the state held on the last Saturday of the month. According to investigations, what took place last Wednesday where the suspected soldier chased the deceased and shot him dead few metres from the deceased house was a stored up anger which was orchestrated by the deceased’s refusal to engage in a forced sanitation exercise. Meanwhile, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has visited the deceased family at their home, Amaise Umuokerengwa with a strong assurance that the murderer will not go scot free. “This is one murder too many. We will do everything possible under the law to get this murderous soldier and bring him to justice. Whatever it takes, we will do. We will go to Abuja or any other place to ensure that this soldier doesn’t go scot free. The death of this young man is extremely painful and cannot go in vain. This is my position and this is the position of the Government and people of Abia State.” Governor Ikpeazu also informed the family of the deceased of the arrest of the suspected killer and two of his colleagues, adding that his government would take care of the family left behind. He described the killing as an act of cowardice and reiterated his commitment to the security of lives and property of Abians, assuring that further investigations into the killing are ongoing. “This is one killing we will not allow to be swept under the carpet. Such incidents must stop in Abia. I therefore urge the youths of Obingwa local government and, indeed, every area in Abia State, to remain calm, peaceful and go about their normal businesses while we deal with the situation according to the laws of the land. Be assured that justice will be served,” the governor said. Abia State Commissioner of Police, Mr Ene Okon, who accompanied the Governor on the visit, expressed regrets over the sad incident and promised that everything is being done to ensure that such does not happen again. (Saturday Independent) Source News Express