Abuja (Sundiata Post) – No fewer than three persons were on Friday feared killed over leadership tussle in Umueri community in the Anambra East local government area of Anambra State. It was gathered that the fracas might not be unconnected with a power tussle between the traditional ruler of the community, Igwe Benneth Emeka and the President General Umueri General Assembly, Pius Okonkwo. A resident of the area, who refused to disclose her identity, told our correspondent that there was gunshot in Mgbago Umueri by youths in the area who stormed in their numbers. He said three bodies were found dead with varying degrees of bullet wounds following the gunshots. Confirming the incident, President General of Umueri community, Pius Okonkwo, accused the monarch of the community of instigating the violence following attempt to assume the duties and functions of the town union executives. He alleged that the monarch imposed a 30-man committee on the community to run the administrative duties of the town union. According to him: “Trouble started when some youths loyal to Igwe Benneth Emeka stormed UGA meeting at Umueri Civic center and disrupted the meeting, claiming to have impeached the President General. “Umueri has not had a Traditional Ruler for about 21 years before Ben Emeka came into the saddle and before then, our community had lasting peace but the peace and harmony are what Igwe Emeka is trying to scuttle and Umueri people will not allow that. “As I speak to you, the traditional ruler has taken over the functions of the town union leadership and now plays the role of Emperor Nero of the then Roman Empire. “We have up to September to the end of our tenure and we have to set up an electoral committee to conduct elections by December this year. In a swift reaction, however, the monarch accused the President General of sponsoring hoodlums to raze his palace. He said: “The hoodlums were arrested and they confessed to the crime. They accused the President General of sponsoring the attack on my palace and if you go to the police, they will give you statements made by the suspects.” According to the monarch, Okonkwo had been mobilising people to effect his dethronement, alleging that his intention was to remain in office perpetually. Police spokesperson, Haruna Mohammed, when contacted, denied knowledge of the incident. He said, “I have spoken to the DPO Otoucha Division and he confirmed to me that there was no such incident in Umueri and no official report was made to that effect please.” 