By Emmanuel Mogbede Abuja –   Dr Uchechukwu Ogah, Minister of State for Mines And Steel Development, has called on the people of Abia to reflect on the journey so far as the state marks its 28 anniversary. He made the call in a statement on Tuesday in Abuja, while congratulating Dr Okezie Ikpeazu, the state governor and the people on the occasion. “I want to congratulate the state governor and the people of the state as it turns 28. “I urge the people to reflect on our journey so far and how far we have come as a state, I am however, confident that we have a glorious future ahead of us. “In spite of the challenges of the moment, I have the hope that with our culture of fearless determination, creativity, belief in God and love for education, we are equipped enough to surmount our challenges. “We can overcome every difficulty because we are a people notable for our creative ingenuity and passion,” he said. He expressed optimism that whatever was agreed upon with determination could be achieved. The minister also urged the people of Abia to be focused and to ensure that their goals were achieved while working with the country’s leaders at both the state and national level. (NAN) Abuja (Sundiata Post) -  Onyebuchi Ememanka, the new Chief Press Secretary to the Abia State Governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, has criticized the Senator representing Abia North district, Chief Orji Uzor Kalu, over his recent statement on Ndigbo. Recall that Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, was quoted to have during a Thank… June 27, 2019 In "News" Abuja   -     Gov. Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia says his administration has completed 56 roads within three years. Ikpeazu who said this at a Town-Hall meeting organised by Abia Development Organisation (ADO), in Abuja noted that 79 other roads were currently under construction or repair. He listed the completed roads to… May 28, 2018 In "News" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Former Group Managing Director of Diamond Bank, Plc, and the 2015 governorship candidate of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA), in Abia State, Dr Alex Otti  is set sack the incumbent governor, Dr Okezie Ikpeazu from office in 2019 as the south east… August 8, 2018 In "News"