Actress Georgina Onuoha says she is ashamed as a Nigerian and she goes against, yahoo boys, slays queens flaunting fake asses, bags and travel and money looting politicians. Gistvic Reports. The actress said Nigerians glorify wealth with nobody willing to ask the basic questions of the source been legitimate or not. Georgina Onuoha said shame on the women who marry men knowing fully well that their husbands are committing crimes as businessmen and causing innocent families tears and suicides. She wrote: This is truly shameful as a Nigerian living in diaspora. Our society is morally bankrupt and corrupt. The glorification of questionable wealth beats my imagination. The quest for instant gratification and lack of conscience coupled with greed is the reason our society will forever be doomed. Nigerians glorify wealth, no body is willing to ask the basic questions “ hey how are you making your money , is it legitimate? “. Rather you glorify stupidity and crime. You run to Dubai and display the most expensive exotic cars, and you see the shameless celebrities and ignorant youths hailing plain criminals. I pray more raids like this continue to the highest levels of our society home and abroad. You can not be working 8 to 12 hours and be spending money like this? It is not possible. Most Nigerian politicians of today were once into money laundry, cyber crime and 419s. Enjoy it now, but you will never escape the law. Run , they will find you in your great grandma village. Useless human beings. To the Slay Queens and fashionistas, Instagram slay thieves continue. 95 percent of you all have no credible job, yet you buy the latest designer bags meanwhile you’ve not done a movie in years, no investments or credible job yet people give you accolades. You fly first class, Private Jets, mansions, please who are you fooling? What most of you forget is that, the watchful eyes of Interpol, FBI , etc are watching you. Ok continue. Until you begin to live according to your means, you will forever be a slave to quick money and your Waterloo is near. Just as they are dragging these thieves, your day is coming.  I’m ashamed as a Nigerian and shame on our leaders.. the good news now is that Nigerian politicians are no longer immune from the watchful eyes of the US authorities. Every day is for the thief, one day is for FBI and Interpol. Shame on the women who marry such men knowing fully well that their husbands are committing crimes as businessmen and causing innocent families tears and suicides. I hope they arrest you all. Ndi ara. If you know all the olosho Slay Queens with zero jobs yet flaunting fake asses, bags and travel. please feel free to tag them.”