By Vivian Ibobo Lagos   –    A Clearing and Forwarding Agent, Akinbola Adebola, was on Monday arraigned at an Ikeja Magistrates’ Court for allegedly obtaining N2.7 million under false pretences to procure a Toyota Camry Saloon car for a man. Adebola, 35, is charged with conspiracy, stealing and obtaining money under false pretences, to which he pleaded not guilty. The Police Prosecutor, Sgt. Mike Unah, insisted that the defendant committed the offences with some other persons still at large sometime in 2017 at Alakuko, a suburb of Lagos. Unah alleged that the defendant collected the money from the complainant, Aliyu Abimbola, with a promise to procure the car for him, a representation he knew was false. He said that the defendant, who did not buy the car, also failed to refund the money. According to him, the offence contravenes the provisions of Sections 411, 287 and 314 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Section 314 of the law provides for 15 years imprisonment for obtaining money under false presences. The Magistrate, Mr A.A. Fashola, admitted the defendant to bail in the sum of N250,000 with two sureties in like sum. The court fixed Sept. 2 for further hearing. By Adaeze Iroha Lagos - A 52-year-old travel agent, Lamidi Muis, was on Monday arraigned at a Magistrate’s Court in Lagos, for obtaining N1.3 million from a client with pretence to procure Australian visa for him. Muis is facing a five-count charge bordering on conspiracy, stealing and obtaining by false… July 22, 2019 In "Metro" By Adaeze Iroha Lagos - The police in Lagos on Wednesday arraigned a 43-year-old travel agent, Kabiru Adewale, charged with obtaining N2.1 million under false pretences. Adewale appeared a Yaba Chief Magistrates’ Court in Lagos on a five-count charge bordering on conspiracy to defraud, stealing and obtaining by false pretences.… May 22, 2019 In "Metro" By Funmilola Gboteku Lagos - A 33-year-old clearing agent, who allegedly obtained N1.5 million from a businessman on the pretext of clearing three vehicles for him, was on Monday brought before an Apapa Chief Magistrates’ Court, Lagos. Daniel Eromosele, who resides at Mafoluku area of Lagos, is facing a two-count… March 18, 2019 In "Metro"