By Hassana YakubuKaduna No fewer than 247 farmers have benefited from the Food African Projects in Kaduna State, the state Deputy Governor, Hajiya Hadiza Balarabe, has said. Balarabe said this on Wednesday in Kaduna at the distribution of farm inputs including high yield seedlings and pesticides to the 247 beneficiaries. The Deputy Governor, who expressed satisfaction with the project, reassured of the constant support and commitment of the government at all times. She said that the project, which was targeted at women and youth, would go a long way in promoting agriculture value chain development in the state . According to her, the programme will enhance employment opportunities for the teeming youths and women in the state. “It will also have ripple effect of assuring food security and alleviating poverty in the state, “I am aware that apart from the provision of agricultural commodities and training for our farmers the FAO is also providing a food processing facility and aggregation centres in Jere, Kagarko Local government. “For us, it’s a welcome development and it will be a great help to our farmers and will serve dual purposes of helping to overcome the challenges of post harvest losses and most importantly to provide access to market, ” she said. According to her, the state government have been able to draw significant number of agric businesses to the state and also created expanding market for farmers. “Kaduna state is naturally endowed and we posses competative and comparative advantage in quite a number of areas, particularly in agriculture, “We will do everything possible to take full advantage of the opportunity provided along the value chain to develop our economy and engage our teeming unemployed youths and other citizens to create wealth and reduce poverty, ” she said. Balarabe charged the farmers to put to effective use the training that they received and utilise the farm inputs appropriately. She also expressed appreciation to the FAO for the laudable initiative, saying ” our government is in partnership and collaboration because that is the way to go toward realizing people centre governance agenda. “We are also willing to partner to expand to other local governments. ” The FAO representative in Nigeria and ECOWAS, Mr Suffyan Koroma, said the Food Africa Project was aimed at empowering youths and promoting innovative Public Private Partnership through more efficient agro food value chain in Nigeria. He said the programme was an innovative partnership between United Nation, Sustainable Development Goals, FAO, International Labour Organisation and International Trade Center. According to him, the project is aimed at promoting replicable integrated solutions to agro food value chain development, food security and nutrition, youth employment and poverty alleviation. He said the project was the first UN joint project in Nigeria being implemented in Kaduna state. Koroma noted that the success of the project in Kaduna will encourage FAO to replicate it in other states. He said that under this project 247 farmers under 15 cooperative farmers groups were profiled by FOA in 2018. The official said the profiling has been completed and a data base already established, which can be used for other activities. (NAN)