Hong Kong   –      Rallies were held across Hong Kong on Monday in support of a city-wide strike, prompting renewed violent scenes as police confronted some of the demonstrators. Police fired tear gas and attempted to disperse protesters gathered at Tin Shui Wai police station in the New Territories and later at a separate protest in Kowloon’s Wong Tai Sin district. Overall, demonstrations were being held in seven districts across the city, according to a strike coordinator. Protesters also began to occupy streets in four different districts. Earlier on Monday, a car drove into a crowd of protesters in Yuen Long, a district that has seen a number of violent clashes and attacks, and attempted to drive through protester barricades according to video footage shared on social media. Protesters dragged the driver from his car before a melee broke out near the scene of the accident. Hong Kong police have arrested 420 people since June 9, they said on Monday, after protests in recent months that rocked the former British colony and plunged it into its worst political crisis in decades.Police have also fired 1,000 rounds of tear gas and about 160 rubber bullets since June 9, they added. The news comes as a general strike on Monday plunged Hong Kong into fresh chaos, paralysing transport and bringing the city to an unprecedented standstill for much of the morning. Hong Kong - Hong Kong police faced criticism on Monday for an apparent failure to protect anti-government protesters and passersby from attack by what opposition politicians suspected were gang members at a train station on the weekend. The attack on Sunday came during a night of escalating violence that opened… July 22, 2019 In "Foreign" Hong Kong  -  Dozens of people in Hong Kong were charged on Thursday while taking part in a riot after a dispute between vendors and police on the first day of the Lunar New Year holiday. It was described as the city's worst violence since pro-democracy protests in 2014. Reports… February 11, 2016 In "Foreign" Hong Kong - More than 1,000 protesters calling for democracy and some chanting “free Hong Kong” converged on the Chinese-ruled city’s airport on Friday as Singapore advised its travellers to avoid protest areas in the territory. Hong Kong airport authorities said operations wouldn’t be affected, but advised passengers to arrive… July 26, 2019 In "Foreign"