It’s one thing to be on Forbes….okay, we take that back. It is a huge feat to appear on Forbes 30 under 30. Described by Washington Post as “millennial-focused programming to the magazine’s many influential consumers” and with an app and a Summit to go with it, the Forbes 30 under 30 needs no introduction. However, Forbes, trusted by people around the world, has come under attack after publishing the story of 28-year-old Nigerian Businessman, Obinwanne Okeke, the CEO of Invictus Group, an under 30 billionaire in naira who, it turns out, got his money through fraud or as Nigerians prefer to call it, yahoo plus. An investigation conducted by the FBI reveals that he perpetrated an $11 million wire fraud, which was executed by hacking into a steel company’s CEO’s Office365 account, between 2016 and 2018. Interestingly, he was listed under Forbes 30 under 30 in 2016 and Forbes 100 Most Influential Young Africans in 2018. Nigerians have since been reacting to the news: Lmao It’s funny to me how Abuja people are surprised at this invictus Obi fraud guy… so all those people buying 12 don p at Moscow you think they work in ministry of Sports?? "@QuixoticUgo: This Invictus Obi story just reminds me that @mcedopikin already gave him a classification in this video from way back. pic.twitter.com/sZ9LFZ097t Invictus Obi – He aspired to inspire, then decided to conspire and now he will perspire because plans don backfire and now FBI don acquire the documents whey dem go use enquire. Forbes list membership don expire and shame don catch una whey dey admire.The entire case na wahala. The story of Invictus Obi and Samson Siasia is a message to the Nigeria Police that not only young men with dreads and tattoos commit crimes. People do Yahoo Yahoo with suit & tie too On this Invictus Obi case, have you noticed that your regular celebs are not coming online to say "Nobody Holy" … Oh well, that shit only applies when the Nigerian Govt tries to nail fraudsters. Nobody wants FBI wahala, LoooolHypocrites. This Invictus Obi affidavit shows what I have always been saying that Nigerian 419 fraudsters are basic. Their victims are also basic too. How can a company where CFO can authorize millions of dollars in transfer have no endpoint security and transaction authorization security? pic.twitter.com/ELkvPYQZ5z Mr. Obinwanne Okeke had two personalititesInvictus Obi that aspires to acquire so as to inspire your desireThen there is Convictus Obi that Acquire your card, so he can wire and build his empire.Let's not confuse the two, They caught Convictus Obi not Invictus Obi. No matter how bad Invictus Obi's fraud is, it isn't remotely near what Bernie Madoff or Elizabeth Holmes managed to pull off.And no, we are not the worst people on earth.That doesn't mean we are angels. This Invictus Obi's story clearly shows that Yahoo Yahoo boys can operate anywhere- even wearing suits. That's why I hardly believe all these influencers giving Tedx Talks if I can't trace their sources of income. Most of them do Yahoo as a major side hustle. Run your own race! The apprehension of Invictus Obi is hopefully a notification to the gutter mouthed “rich” businessman/men with obviously dubious “wealth” on here. Your time is near. Court: How did you catch Invictus Obi as a scammer.FBI: *Publishes 4 page affidavit with facts and some details of the investigation*Court: How did you catch the scammer?EFCC: He had tattoos and iPhone. I’m more disappointed in Forbes for listing Invictus Obi as a “Self Made” Millionaire.They did the same with Kylie Jenner. Is it anybody that has enough Money to pay that can appear on Forbes front page? Y’all don’t research again? Not only was this Invictus Obi guy on Forbes 30 Under 30, he’s also been on BBC, given a TED Talk, spoke at London School of Economics Africa Summit, was nominated for “Young African Business Leader” at The AABLA Awards, & was a contributor for Forbes.Yahoo boy with portfolio. Invictus obiWhen I saw his name on Forbes list of young billionaires I was proud and inspired and thought to myself "another person to follow". Only to discover now that he is a fraudster ? This is so disappointing and backstabbing. 👇 pic.twitter.com/ysqjHfR9II