New Delhi   –     The Indian Government on Monday revoked Kashmir’s special status and restructured the state’s governance in one of the most significant moves in the disputed Himalayan region in seven decades. Article 370 of the Indian Constitution, which confers special status on Jammu and Kashmir and gives it a certain amount of autonomy, has been removed via an order signed by President Ram Kovind, Home Minister, Amit Shah, told parliament. The state would also be “re-organised”, Shah said, prompting protests from lawmakers, who opposed the surprise move. Domestic media reported the state would be broken into two federally-administered territories: Jammu and Kashmir, as well as Ladakh. The move followed days of uncertainty amid a massive build-up of troops in the region and the midnight house arrest of top Kashmiri politicians including former chief ministers, Mehbooba Mufti and Omar Abdullah. The decision is expected to spark unrest in the region and escalate tensions with Pakistan. India and Pakistan administer separate portions of Muslim-majority Kashmir, but both claim the region in its entirety and have fought two wars over it. “Today marks the darkest day in Indian democracy,’’ Mufti tweeted. The “unilateral” decision was “illegal and unconstitutional and will make India an occupational force in Jammu and Kashmir,’’ she added. Article 370 permits Kashmir its own constitution, a separate flag and independence over all matters except foreign affairs, defence and communication. It was the basis under which the former princely state acceded to India when it was partitioned in 1947. The decree was put up on the government’s website soon after Shah’s announcement and officials said it would come into force immediately. Article 370 has long been contentious in India. The ruling Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party had opposed the special status for the state for decades and had included striking down the article as part of its election manifesto. The ruling party argues that scrapping the law will help complete the integration of Kashmir with India. The article forbade non-Kashmiris and Indians from permanently settling, buying land, getting state jobs or education scholarships. The region has seen a bloody insurgency against authorities in India-administered Kashmir since the late 1980s, with thousands of lives lost. India claims Pakistan aids and abets militancy in Kashmir, a charge Islamabad denies. It calls militants freedom fighters. By Fayaz Bukhari SRINAGAR  - Four protesters and a police officer were killed in India's northern Jammu and Kashmir state on Sunday, police said, raising the death toll in violence sparked by the death of a separatist militant to 20 since Friday. Protests erupted after security services on Friday evening… July 10, 2016 In "Foreign" Chachwal Village, (India) - India is building more than 14,000 bunkers suitable for families living along its border with Pakistan in Jammu and Kashmir states. The bunkers were designed  to keep them safe near their homes instead of evacuating them as artillery shells scream over. On Tuesday evening, Pakistan used… February 27, 2019 In "Foreign" Srinagar (Kashmir)  -    A new batch of Hindu pilgrims on Wednesday, left for the cave shrine of Amarnath in India’s Jammu and Kashmir state. They were, however, undeterred by a terrorist attack that killed seven people and injured 19, police said. The Amarnath cave shrine, dedicated to the god… July 12, 2017 In "Foreign"