Abuja (Sundiata Post)
– One of the witnesses called by the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, at Governorship
Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital, Iboro
Joseph Udim, has told the court that the All Progressives Congress, APC is
parading fake witnesses. The witnesses, who
stood before the tribunal at the resumed hearing, included the collation agent
of the PDP in Ibesikpo Asutan local government, Ubong Jonah; Unit agent of unit
7, Ward 7 in Ukanafun, Ime Umana; Unit Agent for unit 001, Odoro Ikot in Essien
Udim, Iboro Joseph Ikanna, who was also the ward collation agent for Odoro Ikot
Ward 1. In his oral evidence,
Ime Umanah from Ikot Obio Ekpe in Ukanafun said the election was peaceful in
the units and his ward, describing as false, an earlier testimony of widespread
violence deposed to by an APC witness, Abasiono Udomfu. He told the tribunal
that the said Udomfu was an impostor who never played the role of a party agent
on the day of election. Umanah said, “The APC
agent in my unit was Mfonma Umana, who happens to be my nephew, he wore the APC
tag, and also signed the result sheet of that elections.” Another witness, M. C
Akpan, who said he registered in Ikot Udotang, Ward 3, Unit 003, also faulted
one David Edet David who had earlier told the tribunal that he was the APC Ward
3 agent in Nsit Atai. Akpan said, “He is
from my ward but unit 001, I saw him at the ward centre but I am not aware that
he was representing the APC as collation agent.” He also faulted claims
by the said Edet David that PDP masterminded the snatching and hijacking of
election materials, and insisted that there were election and collation. Presentation of witnesses As part of the agreed 10 days for petitioners to present its case to the Tribunal, the PDP and Atiku/Obi’s legal team today presented about 10 additional witnesses. They are: Jafaru Abbas Ibrahim Abdulrahaman Usman Nicholas Michelizer John MakamaKhalid Yelwa KuboAdam Ali SaniBukar PedroYalwe Yusuf and two… July 12, 2019 In "Politics" The PDP and Atiku/Obi legal team today presented a total of 13 additional witnesses. *They are: 1. Barr. Tanko Beji (PDP Niger State Chairman) 2. Salisu Yusuf (PDP Katsina State Chairman) 3. Salisu Garmaraji Funtua (LGA Collation Agent) 4. Musa Abdulsalam 5. Aliyu Umar Usas 6. Ibrahim Musa 7. Audu… July 9, 2019 In "Top Stories" Subpoenas OrderOne of the major highlights of the proceedings at the Court of Appeal, Abuja Division, was the ruling of the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal on an Order of the Court of Appeal, asking the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), to allow the PDP and Atiku/Obi’s legal team access to… July 18, 2019 In "Politics"