By Hussaina Yakubu Kaduna    –    Gov. Nasir El-Rufa’i of Kaduna State, on Monday, directed the 13 new Permanent Secretaries for the state civil service to deliver on their mandates in line with the vision of his administration. The governor said after the swearing-in of the permanent secretaries that as technocrats, they must guide commissioners of their respective ministries to function efficiently and effectively. He also called on them to bring their professionalism to bear in delivering quality services to the people of Kaduna state. The 13 permanent secretaries include Adamu Mansur, Human Services and Social Development; Nuhu Buzun, Public Service; Abdullahi Sani, SUBEB; Stephen Joseph, Environment; Ibrahim Jere, Establishment and Training, and Mahmoud Yamusa, Planning and Budget. Others are Chris Umar, Justice; Habiba Shekarau, Civil Service Commission; Musa Adamu, Ministry of Local Government,; Murtala Dabo, Finance; Mahmoud Shuaibu, Health; Umar Ibrahim, Political Matters, and Umma Ahmed, Quality Assurance. Kaduna - Gov. Nasir El-rufa’i of Kaduna State on Tuesday appointed new Accountant-General for the state and announced the retirement of three permanent secretaries from the civil service. The new Accountant-General is Malam Umar Waziri. A statement issued by Mr Samuel Aruwan, the Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to… August 11, 2015 In "News" Kaduna - Gov. Nasiru El-Rufai of Kaduna State has set up a nine-man committee to produce a white paper on the report of the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into the Army/Shiites clash in the state. The Army/Shiites clash in Zaria last December had left many people dead. This is contained… July 27, 2016 In "News" Kaduna   -  Gov. Nasiru El-Rufa'i of Kaduna State has announced a minor cabinet reshuffle affecting four commissioners in the state. A statement issued on Tuesday in Kaduna by Mr Samuel Aruwan, Special Assistant to the Governor on Media and Publicity, indicated that those affected were Prof. Jonathan Nok, who… May 4, 2016 In "Top Stories"