Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Chief Mike Aondokaa, has said he has no case to answer in the Halliburton scandal. Aondoakaa disclosed this while dismissing media reports that he was involved in Halliburton scandal and should be arrested by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). He advised the group who raised the allegation to leave him alone as it was too early to drag him into 2013 politics. He said he has taken
advantage of President Muhammadu Buhari’s agriculture policy which, according
to him, is yielding fruits for farmers. He said his attention was drawn to a publication authored by a civil society group, Global Integrity Crusade Network (GICN), calling for his arrest and prosecution over Halliburton, 10 years after he left office. “As the Attorney General
of the Federation and Minister of Justice  under the government of the
Late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua, between year 2007 and 2010 , I  did
not negotiate or authorize any payment to the Nigeria Government with one KBR
firm a subsidiary of Halliburton as alleged by the so called Global Integrity
Crusade Network.” “In fact, all payments made to the government
of Nigeria from the Halliburton were done in 2012 when Chief MKA has left
office, so its laughable to call for my arrest and prosecution,” he said. On the allegation that he
ordered the transfer of the case of former Governor James Ibori from Kaduna to
Asaba, Aondoakaa stated that the lawyers to Ibori raised the issue of
jurisdiction and the trial judge transferred the matter to Asaba. He described Economic and
Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) under Magu as the chairman, as courageous,
adding that if he was involved in Halliburton, EFCC would have arrested and
charged him to court. According to the Ex AGF, the EFCC invited him in 2016 and he said all he know and that since then, he is into farming and practising his legal profession and knows nothing about Halliburton. Culled from the Nation