By Jessica Onyegbula Abuja –  Christian Youth for Peace and Development Initiative (CYPDI) in collaboration with Community and Youth Development (CYD) has advised the Nigerian youth to look inward to achieve their dreams. Mr Simeon Dolly, who spoke for the faith-based organisations at a news conference on Tuesday in Abuja,  stressed that everyone could not work with government or a reputable company at the same time. Dolly noted that the Nigerian youth were very hard working and as such they must not waste time waiting or hoping for white-collar jobs. He said that there were other legal businesses that could fetch good incomes without stress. Dolly said that the faith-based organisations aimed at contributing their quota towards the sustenance of peaceful and harmonious co-existence among Nigerians. He called for dialogue, patience and tolerance among Nigerians to help the government to achieve its targets and goal for a better Nigeria. ”Government requires our support, advice and prayers to achieve their set targets and goals. Indeed, what is happening in Libya, Yemen, Sudan and many African countries should serve as a lesson for us,” Dolly said. A representative from CYD, Mr Umar Tahir, noted that the current challenges facing Nigeria in terms of religious sentiments which deepened mutual suspicion was alarming. According to Tahir, Nigeria’s customs and religious values are fast eroding and as a result the ugly situation where neighbours no longer cared for one another persists. ”This situation if left unchecked will result to anarchy as it is happening in many African countries,” he said. Tahir urged Nigerians to embrace peace and love one another for the country to move forward. (NAN) By Kabir Muhammad Abuja -  The Secretary, FCT Social Development Secretariat (SDS), Amanda Pam, has called on youths to always learn skills of their choice to avoid roaming the streets for non-existing jobs. Pam made the call while declaring open a 3-Day training of 100 youths on satellite installation on… November 24, 2018 In "News" ABUJA - Mr Simon Dolly, National Coordinator, Youth for Peace and Good Leadership Initiative, an NGO, on Saturday said it planned to hold a national peace conference to address insecurity in the country. Dolly told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja that peace was essential for any meaningful development in the… February 1, 2014 In "Politics" Abuja  - Some young scientists and inventors on Tuesday in Abuja called on all tiers of government to promote self reliance and youth empowerment by investing in their inventions. The youths, in separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) appealed to the Federal Government to encourage them by… December 2, 2015 In "News"