Apparently worried about the rising wave of killings in Nigeria, the United Nations has called for adequate documentation of report of killings going on in the country. Speaking through its Special Rapporteur on Human Rights during a visit to Government House, Port Harcourt, Ms Callamard Agnes, the UN said that it was interested in documenting the nature and extent of killings by State and Non-State actors in Nigeria. According to the UN’s representative, Agnes said: “I am interested in how the Federal and State Governments respond to the challenges of violence by State and non-state actors. “I would be grateful if you (Governor Nyesom Wike) will share with us, Information on killings by the State and Non-state actors “. However, the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike said that the establishment of State Police will go a long way to resolving the current security challenges facing the country. Governor Wike said the present security arrangement makes it difficult for the Federal Police to respond quickly to security challenges. He spoke on Wednesday when he granted audience to the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Human Rights, Ms Callamard Agnes at the Government House, Port Harcourt. “We believe that there should be State Police for us to effectively fight crime in the country. Our system is fashioned towards the United States, which has Federal, State and Local Police. Each of them has its responsibilities. “In the present situation, if a crime is committed, the Commissioner of Police will first report to the Inspector General of Police, before taking any action “. Governor Wike told the United Nations delegation that the Rivers State Government established the State Neighbourhood Safety Corps Agency to support security agencies with information, but the agency was frustrated for political reasons. He said: “We established the Neighbourhood Safety Corps Agency which would have helped the security agencies with Information. But it was politicised by the Federal Government when they sent the Nigerian Army to ensure that it did not come to fruition. “If the State Neighbourhood Safety Corps Agency was allowed, probably we would have solved part of the security problems “. Speaking further, Governor Wike said that if the Amended Electoral Act had been assented to by President Mohammadu Buhari, Electoral Violence would have been reduced to the barest minimum, as there wouldn’t have been any incentive to snatch materials and manipulate the Electoral Process. He berated the Nigerian Army for perpetrating violence during the 2019 General Elections in Rivers State, adding that the negative actions of the Army were such that several embassies were shocked. Governor Wike reiterated the commitment of the State Government to the fight against cultism. He said that the State Government has initiated an anti-cultism law, which would be diligently implemented. Furthermore, the governor said that working with security agencies, the State Government has intervened in the cult clashes in Ogoniland, noting that several arrests have been made in Khana Local Government Area, where cult groups dislodged some communities. Independent