Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Vice Chancellor of University of Ibadan,(UI) Prof Idowu Olayinka and some top management members of the university, on Sunday, escaped a plane crash. Members of the University management were returning to Abuja from Sokoto after the wedding ceremony of the school’s Chancellor, the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III. Sunday Saanu, Media Assistant to the VC, narrated the ugly experience in a post on social media on late Sunday, titled; “WERE IT NOT FOR GOD!.” Mr Saanu said it was God that helped the flight to overcome the disaster. “We can’t thank God enough for His mercies! Part of the problems with human beings is that we often take many things for granted: we say it is normal for planes to fly and land. But aircraft do fall and cause irreparable loss. “Were it not for God, what would we have been saying? Enemies of our souls would have rejoiced! This bird was too big and loaded to fall. Had an unexpected happened, the nation would have been thrown into mourning. University of Ibadan in particular would have suffered unimaginable calamity of the biggest proportions. “Why? Almost all the Management members of UI as well as some Council members were flying this plane from Sokoto to Abuja. We were coming from the wedding ceremony of our Chancellor, the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III whose daughter, Fatima got married to Mahmoud Yuguda from Bauchi State. The bride-groom himself and some of his family members were also in this flight. “Were it not for God who prevented the unexpected, our names would have dominated the media.” The University members on the flight include: 1. Nde Waklek Joshua Mutka, UI Council Chairman2. Prof. Ademola Aremu, Council member3. Prof. Abel Idowu Olayinka, UI VCOthers from UI are Prof. Kayode Adebowale, Deputy Vice Chancellor, (Administration), Prof. Adebola Ekanola, (DVC, Academic), the Registrar, Mrs. Olubunmi Faluyi. They also include the University’s Bursar, Dr. Michael Alatise, Prof. Kuta Yahaya, Deputy Registrar (Council), Mr. David O. Oyejide, Director, Public Communication, Olatunji Oladejo, Protocol Officer, Samuel Badejo and Sunday Sannu. Over the weekend, Fatima got married to her heartthrob , Mahmoud Yuguda from Bauchi State in what could be described as a royal wedding, drawing dignitaries from the political class, economic circles, traditional rulership and different social strata. The wedding took place at Sultan Bello Mosque while dinner was organized at the Sultan’s palace later in the day. The Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi played an important role on the occasion while other prominent first class traditional rulers across the country graced the occasion in their numbers.On Friday night, the UI delegation had visited the Chancellor in his palace, presenting gifts from the University. The Sultan who appreciated the gesture of the University commended both the Chairman of Council and the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Abel Idowu Olayinka for the wisdom with which the duo have been managing the affairs of the university, pointing out that “I always monitor the developments in UI with keen interest.