The officials Christopher Exley, Sara Jane Booth, Kliment Taseski, Rhiannon Ceirwen Martin and Heyral Kaj Jurgen, will arrive today. A five-man inspection team from FIFA will arrive Lagos, today, Monday, for a four-day inspection of facilities and equipment, that Nigeria has put forward to host the U20 Women’s World Cup in 2020. This was confirmed in a statement by the Head, Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) Communications Department, Ademola Olajire. The officials Christopher Exley, Sara Jane Booth, Kliment Taseski, Rhiannon Ceirwen Martin and Heyral Kaj Jurgen, will arrive today. They would be received by Amaju Pinnick, President of NFF, first Vice President Seyi Akinwunmi and General Secretary Mohammed Sanusi. Also NFF Executive Committee member and Chairman of the Nigeria Women Football League Aisha Falode and top officials of the Lagos State Sports Commission led by the Executive Chairman, Kweku Tandoh will receive the FIFA team. Nigeria has put forward the cities of Lagos, Benin, Asaba and Uyo for the hosting of the 16 nations finals. By Ijeoma Okigbo Abuja - A five-man inspection team from FIFA will arrive Lagos on Monday for a four-day inspection of facilities and equipments that Nigeria has put forward to host the U20 Women’s World Cup in 2020.  This was in a statement by the Head, Nigeria Football Federation (NFF)… August 4, 2019 In "Sports" ZURICH, Switzerland -- The FIFA Emergency Committee has decided today, 9 July 2014, to suspend the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) with immediate effect, on account of government interference. Article 13, par. 1 and article 17, par. 1 of the FIFA Statutes oblige member associations to manage their affairs independently and… July 10, 2014 In "Sports" Lagos - Rev. Samuel Ikpea, the Secretary, Nigeria Football Supporters Club (NFSC), on Tuesday urged Nigerians to insist that the incumbent executive of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) be sacked over what he called ``non-performance''. ``If Nigerians do not insist on his resignation now, missing out of 2018 World Cup is… July 26, 2016 In "Sports"