By Pamela Eboh, Awka The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has accused some soldiers of the Nigerian Army of killing one Mr Chimaobi Nwogu, a commercial motorcycle operator, over his refusal to give a bribe of N100 to them at a checkpoint in Obingwa, Abia State. The group described the killing as one too many, saying that it must be reciprocated at the appropriate time. IPOB wondered why the Nigerian Army would abandon their constitutional role of defending the borders of Nigeria from external aggression to descend into lowly criminality of extorting a meagre sum of N100 from motorists on countless checkpoints across Biafraland. A statement made available to journalists on Thursday in Awka by IPOB’s Media and Publicity Secretary, Comrade Emma Powerful, alleged that “the unprovoked attack and unnecessary killing of Biafrans by Fulani dominated Nigerian Army throughout Biafranland has taken another gruesome dimension since the emphatic rejection of Fulani Ruga settlements and National Lifestock Programme (NLSP) by Biafrans.” The statement reads in part: “On a daily basis, hungry looking fully armed Nigeria soldiers can be seen chasing and tormenting innocent motorcyclists and bus drivers including private road users who are going about their normal business, just for the sake of N100. “The saddest part is that this illegal extortion racket at check-points across Biafraland is non-existent in the north where these soldiers come from. Over the years check-points have become the perfect tool of intimidation and symbol of Fulani Jihadi occupation of Biafraland and must be brought to an end. “Terrorist ravaged core Arewa northern Nigerian has no check-points and Fulani people are not being murdered on a weekly basis by Nigerian soldiers for refusing to pay an illegal extortion fee, but in Biafraland people are being murdered frequently for refusing give money to Nigerian soldiers. “The fact is that blame lies with Okezie Ikpeazu and his fellow quislings in government houses across the East who for the glutonous opportunity of being rigged back into office by Abba Kyari and his cabal, have mortgaged the destiny of our people to their Fulani overlords.” While insisting that the death of Chimaobi will not go unanswered, IPOB said that the South-East region is under attack on all fronts by killer Fulani herdsmen and trigger-happy soldiers. It warned that every death would be avenged, adding that “those who are in the habit of lying their way through international diplomatic circles must look for a way to spin the senseless murder of the deceased in the hands of Fulani Jihadi soldiers bent on extorting money from innocent commuters across Biafraland.” The statement further said: “As we continue to remind the world of the pain and suffering of innocent Biafrans at the hands of the dictatorship that is running Nigeria, let these episodes of senseless brutality against our people be recorded for reference and historic purposes for those that may seek to ignorantly defend Nigeria in the future. “Let it also be on record that IPOB will inevitably reciprocate accordingly against anybody or institution involved in the killing, harassment or detention of any Biafran. We call on all observers of the misery that Nigeria has become to duly note and be aware of the brutality of the Nigerian state against Biafrans and never blame IPOB for any consequences this cold blooded murder of a young man going about his business will cause across Nigeria. IPOB will without doubt respond to this ugly event in kind.” The group called on American Ambassador to Nigeria, the British High Commissioner and other nations with diplomatic presence in Abuja and Lagos to convey the bitterness it feels at the loss its home countries regarding the state of wanton brutality, mayhem, banditry and general lawlessness at the hands of the APC-led government. “That a Nigerian Army chased a young man into his village and shot him dead in his compound in front of his wife and family is wickedness taken too far. The people of Ntigha-Uzor Community in Obingwa LGA should hold Okezie Ikpeazu and other Igbo governors responsible. “Okezie Ikpeazu is giving political protection to Fulani murderers in Abia State because his allegiance and loyalty is to Abba Kyari’s ruling Fulani cabal in Aso Rock that rigged him into power and not to the people of Abia State,” IPOB said. Source: News Express