Nigerian born US singer, Jidenna during a recent appearance on the Breakfast Club, has reacted to the recent arrest of 77 Nigerians by the Federal Bureau of Intelligence (FBI). In his reaction, the “Classic Man” hitmaker said that the reason why Nigerians excel in many areas of life including scam is because they are smarter than a lot of people . He said: ”The reason why Nigerians are known for scamming is not because we are bad people. It’s because we are smarter than a lot of people”. See the video below: "The reason Nigerians are known for scamming…is because we are smarter than a lot of people…It is what it is."Jidenna condoning Yahoo Yahoo.  Can't see much difference between this and what Naira Marley said [not did], but hey… pic.twitter.com/c3khUtxfHm It would be recalled that we reported Jidenna recently dropped his sophomore album, ’85 To Africa’ some few days back. In an interview with MTV previewing his latest studio project, Jidenna explained the cultural significance of the album’s name: “I wanted this album to be a highway that you could take to Africa. We’re living in a time where there’s a lot less borders between people. There’s some people to build borders and make walls but the rest of us know that we are in a time where global culture is it. This album is a mixture of all of that.” The Epic Records artist’s sophomore album features 11 songs. Guests include GoldLink, Fela Kuti’s son Seun Kuti, Mereba, St. Beauty and Mr. Eazi. By Isaac Aregbesola Abuja -  The President of Nigerian Union in South Africa, Mr Adetola Olubajo, has called on the South African authorities to arrest and prosecute killers of Nigerians in that country. Olubajo blamed the incessant killings of Nigerians in South Africa on lack of prosecution of offenders by… July 18, 2018 In "News" Lagos -  A Nigerian gospel singer, Dele Agbeyo, popularly known as ``Dele Gold” on Wednesday urged Nigerians to support the leaders to ensure a resounding positive change Dele Gold stated this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos at the Premiere of his three-track musical… March 23, 2016 In "Entertainment" By FEMI ADESINA “That’s him, that’s him,” the two old women, wrinkled and bent with age, exclaimed. You could see wonderment and fulfillment in their eyes. And as if on cue, they both began to cry. It was in Bauchi earlier this year. President Muhammadu Buhari was visiting to commiserate… December 17, 2018 In "Features"