THE Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, has received his fourth wife – four years after the wedding took place. The wife, Sa’adatu Barkindo Mustapha, was brought to the Emir’s palace on Saturday while the traditional Budar Kai ceremony takes place yesterday. The Emir’s wife, who is the daughter of the Lamido of Adamawa, Muhammadu Barkindo-Mustafa, had just graduated from a university in the United Kingdom (UK), where she went to study immediately after the marriage. Emir Sanusi II and the wife were married in a low-key ceremony in Yola on September 25, 2015. Sa’adatu was an 18-year-old secondary school leaver when the wedding was contracted. Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje represented the emir at the event and former Adamawa State Governor Jibrilla Bindow played the role of the bride’s guardian, who gave her hand out in marriage. The Emir of Kano was at the time away in Saudi Arabia as leader of Nigeria’s delegation to the Hajj. The Emir has three other wives – the first wife, Sadiya, who is daughter of the late Emir of Kano, Ado Bayero; Maryam and Rakiya. Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje and Emir of Kano Muhammadu Sanusi II, are back on good terms. This followed intervention in the widely reported ‘war’ by some Northern Governors at the weekend. ​Sanusi is being investigated by the Kano state Public Complaint and Anti-Corruption Agency (KSPCACA) over an alleged misappropriation… April 30, 2017 In "News" Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Huge relief yesterday came the way of the embattled Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II following the intervention of the Governor of Ekiti State and Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), Dr. Kayode Fayemi and a foremost business mogul, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, both of whom… June 9, 2019 In "News" Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose, has criticized President Muhammadu Buhari for attending the wedding ceremony of Governor Abdullahi Ganduje’s daughter, Hajiya Fatima and her groom. Fayose feels the president should be more concerned about the tragedies unfolding in different parts of Nigeria, especially in the North. “I’m of the opinion… March 3, 2018 In "News"