 ￼Joseph Oyediran, one of the internet fraudsters wanted by USA’s Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) as part of an international crackdown on a syndicate of cyber criminals, has been arrested by operatives of Nigeria’s anti-graft agency, the Economic Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ilorin Zonal Office in Kwara State. This was disclosed on Friday (August 30, 2019) by the Zonal Head of EFCC in Ilorin, Isyaku Sharu, during a press conference to give update on the EFCC/FBI collaboration in the fight against internet fraud and cybercrime. He said: “Three weeks ago, the US authority had written to us for assistance in tracking and possible arrest and prosecution of two most wanted FBI suspects in Nigeria. “Investigation conducted by the EFCC revealed that Joseph had benefited about N60 million from the loot via western union transfers.” Sharu stressed that the Acting EFCC Chairman, Ibrahim Magu, has expressed resolve to ensure that the anti-graft agency effectively coordinates the Nigerian end of the investigation with the FBI and other partner international law enforcement agencies involved in the worldwide crackdown down on internet fraud. He further noted that within seven months of its operations in Ilorin, EFCC has revved up efforts to rid the country of cybercrime resulting in the arrest of more than 50 persons involved in internet fraud. “We have also secured the conviction of 25 of them, recovered exotic cars from them, which were proceeds of their illegal activities,” he said, adding that money recovered from them running into millions of naira were forfeited to the Federal Government. Sharu also revealed that some property linked to some of the cybercrime suspects, were traced to choice areas in Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State. “They include supermarket, plaza, and so on, and the conservative value of the property cannot be less than N800 million to N1 billion,” he said. The EFCC Zonal Head said that the nation depends on the vibrancy of the economy, which is a common denominator binding Nigeria together, and business worldwide is being conducted online. “There is the need for Nigerians to come together with the aim of combating the scourge of internet fraud and cybercrime in order to make the cyber space well-fortified, so that foreign investors can invest to further boost our economy,” he said. (News Express)