Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Federal Government has  threatened to use singer, Tekno as a scapegoat for releasing the controversial video which is said to send strong signals of intolerance to ‘nonsense and immorality’. It was gathered that Tekno came under attack after being spotted in a viral video shared on social media dancing in a transparent moving truck on the Lekki-Ikoyi Link Bridge in Lagos, with four semi-nude women. Reacting to the release of the music video for the song, Agege, Director General of the National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC) a parastatal of the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture, Segun Runsewe said, “We commend the police for arresting Tekno for the shameful misconduct. The same person, who was granted bail on health grounds has gone ahead to release the controversial video. We are now warning him to desist from this shameful conduct, which is not part of our culture. “No single person is bigger than Nigeria; whether he likes it or not, we are going to use him as a scapegoat to send strong signals that this government does not tolerate nonsense and immorality, but discipline, which is our moral principle. “Since the offensive Tekno scam video came to the limelight, I have received hundreds of telephone calls and SMS from Nigerians at home and others in the United Kingdom, United States, Canada and other parts of the world querying why such anomalies would be tolerated in Nigeria. “Now that he has released the shameful video when investigation is still ongoing, we are going to inform security agencies to place him on their watch list, because his action is a threat to national security and a bad influence on Nigerian youths. “We are committed to exposing proponents of this kind of offensive sights and videos. We warn that nudity is not part of our culture and should not be tolerated. The Federal Government will henceforth fish out clubs for nude dancers across the country for their promoters to face prosecution.” Culled from Information Nigeria