The African Action Alliance (AAC) on Friday, in Owerri, the Imo State capital, announced the expulsion of its National Chairman, Mr. Omoyele Sowore, from the party. Also sacked from the party were 28 other National Officers. Sowore was the party’s presidential candidate in the 2019 general elections. The sacking of Sowore may not be unconnected with the row caused by his call for a revolution to unseat President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. The party took the decision at the National Convention of the party held at Rockview Hotel, Owerri. Sowore was replaced by Dr. Leonard Nzenwa. The motion to expel Sowore, Malcom Fabiyi and 28 others, was moved by Chief Emeka Ezeife and seconded by Nasiru Abdul Rahman. Read Also; Court okays Sowore’s detention for 45 days
The party accused Sowore of anti party activities and bringing the party into disrepute through his actions. Speaking after he was sworn in, the new Chairman, accused Sowore of subversive activities by trying to change the government through unconstitutional means. He said that though the party is poised to take over power in 2023, it could only do that through the ballot box. Nzenwa said: “The AAC is poised to take over power in 2023 through the ballot and not through any unconstitutional means. We acknowledge the constitutional rights of citizens to peaceful protest against government but we are aware that this constitutional right does not include the right to resort to unconstitutional take over of the government of the country or any part thereof. “We as law party dissociate the party from any move to unconstitutionally topple the government and any individual who may have done that in the name of the party did so without our consent and clearly did not do so in the name of the party or on its behalf. The party also admonished the former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, for using the party “to foment trouble in Rivers State. Nzenwa said that AAC is not in alliance with any party, vowing that the party has the capacity and capability to win election in Rivers State without outside assistance. The Nation