By Yemi Adeleye Lagos – Mr Sunny Ejeje, the Chairman, Nigerian Society of Nigeria (NSE), Apapa branch, has advised Federal Government to invest in storage facilities to encourage food security and local content for nation’s industries. Lagos – Mr Sunny Ejeje, the Chairman, Nigerian Society of Nigeria (NSE), Apapa branch, has advised Federal Government to invest in storage facilities to encourage food security and local content for nation’s industries. Ejeje made the appeal when he led members of the society on an industrial visit to the Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc, and Fertilizer Plant on Tuesday as part of a week-long activities to mark the engineering week. After the tour, Ejeje told NAN that what was left for the Federal Government was to fix infrastructure such as storage and transport of materials to the location of industries. While commending the Federal Government’s efforts in agricultural sector, he reiterated the importance of fertilizer in food crop production. Ejeje lauded the Flour Mills management for using Nigerian engineers and local materials for their production. “For us, Nigerians, to move forward and achieve food security, we have to look inward. “As we have been told, most of the materials being used for fertilizer production are being imported. “Though, we have them in Nigeria, the problem is transportation to the factory site. “If we put our rail system and roads in order, there will be ease in the movement of raw materials from farms to where there are needed in any part of the country. “The Federal Government is trying in making sure we do things in our own way. “It is encouraging people to go to farm, but it needs to do more by providing facilities such as storage facility,” the NSE chairman said. According to him, one of the problems facing agriculture in the nation is transportation. He said that a great deal of goods still perished before they get to the markets and industrial locations in the country. “Government should look into the area of storage now. Government needs to come in by partnering with the private sector to ensure good storage of goods,” he said. Ejeje said the society would continue to support the government in solving problems, adding all members of the society in any position had been given the charge to make impact. “The fertilizer plant is being run by Nigerian engineers which I am very proud of. This is what we have been clamouring for. ” Also, to the best of my knowledge, Flour Mill is solely Nigeria run,” he said. Ejeje urged Nigerians to believe in the country and local products. NAN reports that the visitors were taken round the facility by Mr Augustine Akapo, the Fertilizer Plant Manager and Mr Francis Anidi, the Fertilizer Maintenance Manager amidst high safety precaution. Akapo told the visitors that the firm obtained its raw materials both locally and internationally. He added that the company preferred to work with Nigerians, saying the factory had been in operations for over 20 years. (NAN) By Lilian Okoro   Lagos   -     Mr Makinde Ogunleye, a former Chairman of Lagos Branch of Nigerian Institute of Town Planners (NITP), has identified poor investment zeal among Nigerians as an impediment to the nation’s economic growth. Makinde said this on Monday while speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria… December 17, 2018 In "News" Lagos  -  Some capital market operators on Saturday urged the Federal Government to prescribe a minimum investment limit to boost Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) participation in the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). They told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos that government needed to stipulate a minimum investment limit… March 5, 2016 In "Business" Abuja -  Farmers have urged relevant agriculture agencies to improve on the nation's produce storage facilities to achieve the Federal Government's objectives of boosting food production. The farmers were reacting to the inauguration of the Presidential Committee/Task Force on Rice and Wheat to facilitate its programme on self-sufficiency in food production. Chief… July 7, 2016 In "News"