By Raji Rasak Lagos – The management of Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) says Police have arrested and tried two men who specialised in stealing and selling of the company’s cables in Ilasan Community, Lekki, Lagos. Mr Godwin Idemudia, the General Manager, Corporate Communications Unit of EKEDC, made this known in Lagos. Idemudia said that one of the suspects was arrested on July 28 by the security operatives, while cutting a cable belonging to the company at Iroko Awe I Substation in Ilasan. According to him, the suspect was immediately taken to Ilasan Police Division where he confessed to have vandalised that particular substation twice in the past. “It was also discovered that prior to his apprehension, he had already cut and taken away 60 meters of armoured cable and 500mm2 single core cable valued at N2.1 million. “He also stole 150mm2 four core armoured cable valued at N300, 000 and 20 meters earth wire valued at N100, 000 from the substation. “Upon investigation, the suspect led the Police to Itedo area of Lekki where they arrested the alleged buyer (nameswitheld) of vandalised items,” he said. The general manager said that the suspects, Noak Yaka and Abdulahi Haruna, were on July 31 arraigned before an Igbosere Magistrates’ Court on a three-count charge of stealing, malicious damage and receiving stolen items. Idemudia said that the two defendants had pleaded not guilty to the three charges, while their case was adjourned until Aug. 19 for mention. He said that the defendants were remanded in Ikoyi Prison pending the perfection of their bail conditions. “It is a thing of big concern that whilst we toil day and night to continuously improve on our operations and services, some unpatriotic individuals are engaging in the condemnable act of vandalism. “The company will explore all legal options, including prosecution and naming and shaming in the media, to bring such saboteurs of our efforts to book,’’ he said. The general manager, however, appealed to community leaders to organise vigilance group to safeguard EKEDC installations in their areas. (NAN)