By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Federal lawmaker representing Bebeji/Kiru
Federal Constituency of Kano State at the green chamber, Hon Abdulmumin Jibrin
has been suspended by the Bebeji Local Government chapter of the All Progressive
Congress, APC, over alleged anti-party activities. His
suspension which  was contained in a statement signed by the
chairman of the APC in Bebeji, Sulaiman Gwarmai made available to newsmen
in Kano on Wednesday, said the decision became necessary as the lawmaker
confirmed to have carried out various anti-party activities. The anti-party activities, which Mr Gwarmai did not state, are
contrary to the provision of the party’s constitution. He, further stated that the decision was arrived at following a
recommendation by a seven-man committee which was constituted after he was
petitioned by the concerned party faithful. Mr Gwarmai, therefore, urged the state APC EXCO to recommend to
the National Executive for the expulsion of Mr Jibrin from the party. “Upon a petition received by the APC executive committee of
Bebeji Local Government, a seven-man committee was inaugurated to investigate
all the issues raised by the petitioner, the statement read in part. “After a thorough investigation, the Committee submitted its
report and recommendations to the Local Government executive which subsequently
met and adopt as follows: That having confirmed various anti-party activities
by Hon. Abdulmuminu Jibrin Kofa which was found contrary to some provisions of
the party’s constitution, ranging from article 21, paragraph A (ii) (V). “And (Vii) the executive committee adopted the report and herby
suspended Hon. Kofa with immediate effect for 12 months. “That the executive
committee also adopted the committee’s recommendation urging the state
Executive committee to recommend to the national executive the immediate
expulsion of Hon. Abdulmuminu Jibrin Kofa from the party for various offences,”
the statement added.\ Recall that Hon Jibrin who played a key role in the campaign and
emergence of Hon Femi Gbajabiamila as the Speaker of the House of
Representatives, was denied juicy Committee Chairmanship position of the House
of Representatives. It was gathered that this did not go down well with Hon
Jibrin.