A commercial driver has reportedly killed himself by taking sniper at a mechanic workshop in Lagos. According to a report by Punch Metro, a 43-year-old man, identified as Kabiru Bello, has allegedly committed suicide by drinking a substance suspected to be Sniper. It was learnt that Bello, who lived at No. 77 Owode Ibeshe in the Ikorodu area of Lagos State, died in his Volkswagen commercial bus with number plate AKD 724 XM at a mechanic workshop at the Ladylak bus stop, Shomolu. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Bala Elkana, who said this in a statement on Monday, added that the deceased was rushed to the Adesola Clinic, Shomolu, where he was confirmed dead. According to him, homicide detectives have visited the scene, where one empty bottle of a liquid substance suspected to be Sniper was recovered. He noted that the corpse had been deposited in a mortuary for autopsy. Elkana stated, “On August 10, 2019, around 12.56pm, the Pedro Police Station received information that one Kabiru Bello, 43, of No. 77 Owode Ibeshe, Ikorodu, Lagos, allegedly drank a liquid substance suspected to be Sniper inside his Volkswagen commercial bus with number plate AKD 724 XM while at a mechanic workshop at the Ladylak bus stop, Shomolu.“He was rushed to the Adesola Clinic, Shomolu, where he was confirmed dead. Homicide detectives visited the scene.  One empty bottle of a chemical substance suspected to be Sniper was recovered.The corpse has been deposited in a mortuary for autopsy.” Meanwhile, the command said it recovered two single-barrelled guns from some fleeing armed robbery suspects. The PPRO stated that the incident happened on August 10 around 10.30pm, when the Ilemba Hausa Police Station received a distress call that one Wale Lawal had been dispossessed of his laptop by some armed robbers. Elkana said a team of policemen deployed in the scene gave the hoodlums a hot chase, which made them to abandon their black Honda car with number plate, Lagos KJA 705 BU.“An on-the-spot search was conducted on the vehicle and two locally-made single-barrelled guns with 12 live cartridges, a laptop and one mobile phone were recovered from the vehicle,” he said. The PPRO added that the vehicle had been moved to the station for further investigation.