Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The apex northern socio-cultural
organisation, Arewa Consultative Forum, ACF, has said that Nigeria is going
through trying period. In a Sallah
message to Muslim faithful Monday morning, ACF spokesperson, Ibrahim Biu
complained of the economic hardship facing Nigerians: “The
Eid-el-Adha or Eid-el-Kabir is a celebration by the Muslim Ummah in obedience
to Allah’s command. It is also a period of sacrifice and a reflection on the
significance of the letter and spirit of the festival. “The Muslim
Ummah are therefore enjoined to be steadfast in propagating what Islam stands
for, among which are love, good neighborliness, tolerance, accommodation,
compassion, support for the needy and peaceful coexistence amongst the various
communities,” he said. “Arewa
Consultative Forum (ACF) hereby wishes to extend its felicitations and good
wishes to the Muslim Ummah and all Nigerians on this special occasion of
Eid-el-Kabir. “May the
lessons of the sacrifices made translate into unity of purpose and love for one
another. The Forum urges all Nigerians to be patient and continue to have hope
in our country inspite of our current security and socioeconomic challenges.
With commitment and resilience, we shall overcome them. “ACF however
appeals to governments at all levels to put in security measures that will
ensure maximum protection of lives and property, while and at the same time
implement policies and programs that will boost the economy and reduce the
economic hardship that tend to stoke security challenges across the nation. “In the spirit
of the season, therefore, we urge all Nigerians particularly politicians to
avoid unnecessary divisive acts that are capable of jeopardizing our democracy
and peaceful coexistence as a nation. “In the same
vein, ACF appeals to the youths to avail themselves to empowerment
opportunities offered by governments, individuals and non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) that add value to themselves and to the communities rather
than take to criminal acts that comes with poverty, unemployment and
frustrations “Nigeria is
in a trying period with so many challenges, especially insecurity and economic
hardships, hence the need to fervently pray for peace, stability, prosperity
and avoid any act that will not be helpful. “We
particularly urge our youths to disregard calls that are inimical to the
corporate existence of one indivisible Nigeria,” the ACF said.