Abuja – Civil servants in Abuja on Wednesday resumed official duties after a two-day public Holidays declared by the Federal Government for Sallah. News Agency of Nigeria correspondent (NAN), who monitored workers resumption at the Federal Secretariat, Abuja, reports that there were low activities in some offices as many workers had not resumed while others recorded high attendant at the secretariat. Some civil servants, who spoke with NAN, said they had their good times meeting with friends and some family members during the break period for Sallah. Some of them explained that the low resumption could be traced to lack of fund to come back to Abuja. Most of the civil servants that are yet to resume work may have spent all they have for the celebration and may not have money to come to the office. Mrs Tabo Francis, a staff at the Ministry of Women Affairs, said from her observation that numbers of civil servants who have resumed were a bit fewer. She, however, said some might still be coming to work after some moment. “To me from the level of numbers that I have seen is a bit few. The number of people is not like the normal working days before the holidays. “It could be some may come in latter or some of us are yet to come back from home, but at the same time, we have to appreciate God for seeing us throughout the break, “ she said. Francis as a word of advice, challenged other workers who were yet to resume to start coming to work, saying the two days holidays were enough to rest and celebrate. Also, Mr Aliyu Maidoki, a civil servant, expressed gratitude to God for the peaceful Sallah break he had without a serious insecurity reports across the nation`s capital and other parts of the country. Maidoki attributed the efforts to the strategies adopted by the security agencies, he also prayed for such peaceful situation in all festivities in the country at any given time. He, however, decried that he had a low key Sallah due to economic hardship experiencing in the country, saying that it might also contributed to low resumption to work after the celebration. “To me there should have been something motivational to workers in all celebrations period, be it Christmas, Easter or any Sallah. “Let`s be candid with ourselves, our government is not treating workers very well, and some of this could also contribute to our low performance in our service delivery. “I pray government should also have a special budget for workers in time like this. “This will be so encouraging even when salaries do not come on time, you could be hopeful that other incentives will come during any celebration time, “ he said. According to him, if the minimum wage agreed upon had been implemented, it would have gone a long way to mitigate some financial challenges faced by civil servants in the country. While expressing readiness to put his best in his services, Maidoki appealed to the federal government for other incentives to encourage the workers across board. Mr Innocent Peter, who works in Ministry of Communication, said a lot of workers in his office have resumed except few who are on leave. Peter, who corroborate Maidoki, said most workers might be stranded for lack of fund to travel back to work on time from where they went for the Sallah. Mrs Christy Okon, who works in Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation, said all the members of staff in her office have fully resumed. “Although, I have not gone out to see other offices, but here in the Head of Service office we have all resumed work, “ she said. NAN observed that some of the Muslim faithful were shearing sallah meat with some of their colleagues in some offices. NAN also observed that in spite of the perceived economic hardship as complained by he people, the roads and motor parks were busy with holiday makers just returning to Abuja after travelling to spend the holidays with family and friends. (NAN)