The Nigeria Police has asked the Nigerian Army to provide more answers to Nigerians about the circumstances surrounding the killing of three policemen in Taraba. The Army has said that the policemen were mistaken for Kidnappers, but little details were provided about the alleged ‘kidnap victim’ Alhaji Hamisu Bala Wadume who was freed and unhurt by them. The police were conveying Alhaji Wadume who they describe as a notorious Kidnapper. See the police report demanding some explanation from the army below: murder of three (3) Police officers and one (1) Civilian, and serious injury to other operatives, who were on legitimate criminal investigation activities to Taraba State, to arrest one Alhaji Hamisu Bala Wadume indicted in a series of high-profile kidnap incidents in the State. the Press Release by @HQNigerianArmy. The most important question arising from the Nigerian Army Press Release is: Where is Alhaji Hamisu Bala Wadume? Alhaji Hamisu Bala Wadume is a millionaire kidnapper arrested by the Police Secondly, the Press Release was silent on the source of the alleged distress report or identity of the complainant, on the strength of whose report, the Army claimed had informed their decision to engage in the purported chase and rescue operation. for obviously and deliberately furnishing them with false and misleading information. Besides, such arrest should in fact be made public! from the Force Headquarters, Abuja speaks volume. Besides, the presence of the IRT personnel was well known to the Taraba Police Command as the Operatives officially and properly documented not only at the State Command Headquarters but also at the Wukari Area Command and The Force also considers it insensitive, disrespectful and unpatriotic for the Press Release by the Army to continue to describe Policemen on lawful National Assignment as ‘suspected kidnappers’ long after it had become crystal clear to the Army In the final analysis, we leave the Nigerian Army authorities to provide Nigerians with answers on the following questions emanating from their Press Release: •Where is the notorious kidnapper, Alhaji Hamisu Bala Wadume ‘rescued’ by the soldiers? •How could a kidnap suspect properly restrained with handcuffs by the Police escape from the hands of his military rescuers? •Why were the Police Operatives shot at close range even after they had identified themselves as Police Officers on legitimate duty as evident in the video now in circulation?