By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – People’s Democratic Party, (PDP), has
berated the All Progressives Congress, APC, for “warning” its 2019 presidential
candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar against making comments on the state of the
nation. APC had said
Atiku’s comments on the state of the nation amounted to felony. Recall that APC spokesman, Lanre Issa-Onilu, in a statement on Tuesday, said Atiku was in the habit of issuing statement on matters “which constitutionally should be reserved for the duly elected head of government. However, PDP while reacting to this, stated that Atiku’s comments on national issues have been patriotic and within his constitutional right of freedom of speech. According to the statement by PDP’s spokesperson, Kola Ologbondiyan, “Atiku is entitled to comment on national issues not only as a “citizen of Nigeria but also a former Vice President, as well as a leader and Presidential candidate of the PDP, the party that commands the followership and solidarity of overwhelming majority of Nigerians.” The PDP
stressed that Atiku’s comments on national issues don’t “fall within the realm
of felony.” “As a
responsible political party, we boldly state that none of the statements made
by our presidential candidate falls within the realm of felony in anyway
whatsoever. “Moreover, the
APC is reminded that while the PDP was in power, it never gagged the APC and
its leaders, including President Buhari, from exercising their freedom of
speech and freedom after speech, in line with our laws. “We note that
General Muhammadu Buhari issued over 160 statements while he was in the
opposition, including inflammatory remarks like the one that called on his
supporters to take their fate in their own hands. It
is instructive to note that none of the PDP administrations threatened General
Buhari over such comments. “Furthermore,
it is quite disturbing that the APC is attacking Atiku Abubakar for commending
British Prime Minister, Boris Johnson, for appointing 39 years old Nigerian,
Kemi Badenoch, as a minister in his cabinet. “Contrary to
President Buhari’s projection to the world that Nigerian youths are lazy and
should not be given active role in governance in our country, other nations are
finding accommodations for our youths. Atiku Abubakar cannot but commend such
world leaders, no matter whose ox is gored. “It is also
instructive to note that the APC has further shown its disdain for the Nigerian
youth as being demonstrated by President Buhari, whose cabinet has no place for
our youths. “Instead of
attacking Atiku Abubakar for standing for our energetic and focused young men
and women, the expectation of Nigerians is that APC will accept its failures
and advise President Buhari against total disregard for young Nigerians. “Furthermore,
the PDP notes the reference by APC to President Buhari as a “sitting”
President. Our party, however, states that what Nigeria needs at a time like
this is a working President, not a President that sits down while our country
becomes the world headquarters of poverty; not a President that relaxes in an
arm-chair while insecurity festers and our economy continues to nosedive to the
extent that Ghana has overtaken our nation as the number one recipient for
Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in West Africa. “This is why the PDP
stands with Nigerians in their determination to retrieve Atiku Abubakar’s
stolen mandate at the tribunal and no amount of threats by the APC can detract
from this resolve,” the party said.