Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Security forces comprising of  Army, Air Force, Department of State Service (DSS), Police and other paramilitary have taken over the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, over the planned #RevolutionNow protest, being organised by the Presidential Candidate of the African Action Congress (AAC) in the 2019 Presidential election, Mr Omoyele Sowore. Recalled that the convener of the #RevolutionNow Protest and publisher of Sahara Reporters, Sowore was at the weekend arrested and detained by the DSS while they referred to his action as a treasonable offence. This action had led to the public outcry, condemning Federal Government’s action. As at the time of filing this report, security operatives armed to the teeth have taken over all the Central Business District (CBD), despite the heavy rainfall. However,  no single protester was at the main venue of the planned protest, Unity Fountain, Maitama, Abuja. One of the organisers of the protest, Comrade Ariyo-Dare Atoye, told Tribune that the protest would still go on, but only that they are still studying the situation.  Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The Nigeria Police Force has accused the convener of #RevolutionNow Protests, Omoyele Sowore and the Global Coalition for Security and Democracy in Nigeria of trying to force a regime change in the country. The Police said inciting Nigerians, home and abroad, to join a planned ‘revolution’… August 4, 2019 In "Top Stories" Abuja -DESPITE the arrest of its lead convener, Mr Omoyele Sowore by operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS), on Saturday, human rights activists, who are also part of the #RevolutionNow protest scheduled for about 25 states tomorrow, have promised to go ahead with the exercise. The rights activists,… August 4, 2019 In "Top Stories" By Mateen Badru/Moses Omorogieva Lagos - Heavily armed security operatives from the Police Command in Lagos, the Army and NSCDC have barricaded entrance to the National Stadium, Surulere ahead of the #RevolutionNow protest spearheaded by Omoyele Sowore on Monday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Sowore, the Presidential… August 5, 2019 In "News"