•IPOB Leader Nnamdi Kanu ABUJA – Proscribed separatist group Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) is targeting Southeast governors, Ohanaeze President Nnia Nwodo and Chief of Army Staff (COAS),  Lt. Gen Tukur Buratai for attacks abroad, its leader Nnamdi Kanu, said on Sunday. He also announced a reward of N1 million for credible information on overseas travel itinerary of the governors and Igbo leaders. He gave reasons the group attacked Senator Ike Ekweremadu in Germany at the weekend. Kanu spoke in an 87-minute broadcast on the radio station, Radio Biafra, last night. The broadcast was monitored by our correspondent. He said a member of the group had made the money available for credible information anytime the governors of the Southeast and other leaders from the zone would be travelling. “So, if you are working in any Government House in Southeast and you know which city in the world the governor is going to be, inform us so that we will mobilise for him and you will be rewarded with N1 million”, he said. He accused the governors of being behind the proscription of IPOB. “They said they proscribed IPOB to douse rising tension in the region. What caused the tension is because the military raided my house in Umuahia”. He also accused them of secretly approving the RUGA settlement in the Southeast. On the attack on Mr Ekweremadu, the IPOB leader said the ex-Deputy Senate President connived with the governors to proscribed his group. “They also brought the army to raid my House in Umuahia. How many times has he spoken against the killings and kidnapping happening in his own state?” queried Mr Kanu. “He (Ekweremadu) went to celebrate New Yam Festival in Germany when his people are being killed and our women being raped. Where did they get the tubers of yam because there is none in Igboland since all the farmlands have been destroyed by herdsmen”. The IPOB leader also accused Ekweremadu of misappropriating money budgeted for the construction of Enugu-Port Harcourt Expressway by former President Goodluck Jonathan administration. The Nation could not independently verify his accusations against Ekweremadu. Apart from the governors, Kanu listed others on the group’s overseas watch list to include Ohaneze Ndigbo President-General Nwodo and Lt.-Gen. Buratai. Kanu said that Nwodo accused Igbo youths of carrying out the recent killings, kidnappings and other criminal activities in the Southeast, especially in Enugu State. For the COAS Buratai, Kanu said the group will never forgive him for his role in various killings and atrocities allegedly committed by the military in the southeast He warned them to steer clear of any foreign country for their own good. “We have nominated five persons each in every country of the world who are ready to be arrested and be jailed for this purpose. Many of us have been killed so what is there in going to jail”, he said. He praised the outspokenness of Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe and Mr. Femi Fani-Kayode. “We campaigned for Abaribe’s re-election because he always spoke the truth every time about what is happening in the country and today he is the highest political office holder in Igboland”. “Fani-Kayode is not an Igbo man but he always stands for the truth and so we have enormous respect for him”. Kanu also claimed that the military is beginning another Operation Python Dance in the Southeast (Monday) which is targeted at his group. (The Nation) 