ABUJA     –     Nigeria will not relinquish assets to a firm registered in the British Virgin Islands following a court ruling related to a $9 billion gas project dispute, the West African country’s information minister said on Tuesday. Earlier this month a judge in London granted Process and Industrial Developments Ltd (P&ID) the right to attempt to seize some $9 billion in assets from the Nigerian government over an aborted gas project. The $9 billion sum would be one of the largest financial penalties imposed on Nigeria, representing 20% of the currency reserves of Africa’s largest economy and top oil producer. Information Minister Lai Mohammed – addressing journalists alongside the finance minister, attorney general and central bank governor in the capital, Abuja – said it would not relinquish any assets. “The federal government is taking all necessary steps to appeal the decision of the UK Court, to seek a stay of execution of the decision, to defend its rights and to protect the assets of the people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” he said. The company was awarded $6.6 billion in an arbitration decision over a failed project to build a gas processing plant in the southern Nigerian city of Calabar. The award was based on what the firm could have earned during the 20-year agreement as part of a deal struck in 2010. The judge’s decision converted the arbitration award to a legal judgment and the sum rose to around $9 billion with interest accrued since 2013. “This award is unreasonable, an assault on every Nigerian and unfair,” the finance minister, Zainab Ahmed, told journalists. And the attorney general said he believed the contract signed by a previous administration with P&ID, a little-known firm founded by two Irish businessmen specifically for the project, was “designed essentially to fail right from conception”. “There is need for comprehensive criminal investigations to unravel the undertone of the contract,” he said. He said the agreement with P&ID should have involved international oil companies and Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC), the country’s main gas producer. Tuesday’s news conference is the latest response from Nigerian authorities following the ruling. Last week Nigeria’s central bank said it would strive to protect the country’s currency reserves following the judgment, though it did not outline measures the bank might take. (Reuters) Nigeria’s foreign assets as well as its oil vessels in international waters are at risk as a British company moves to enforce a $9bn arbitration award against the country over a breach of contract, TheCable can report. Process and Industrial Developments Limited (P&ID), an engineering and project management company, is… February 2, 2019 In "Business" ABUJA, Nigeria’s  fragile economy after recovery from one of the worst recessions in its history now faces imminent threat as a N2.7 trillion arbitration fines seeks to erode the meagre gaians from rising oil prices. Premium Times reports that two arbitration awards totaling over $8.9bn (about N2.7 trillion at CBN’s N305.4… May 25, 2018 In "Business" ABUJA - The Federal Government in Abuja on Tuesday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with nine oil companies for the supply of gas for power generation in Nigeria. They are Chevron, Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC), Nigeria Petroleum Development Company, SEPLAT Petroleum, Agip, Oando, Pan Ocean, Total and Nigeria… November 18, 2014 In "Business"