Ex-housemate, Gedoni Ekpata has reassured fans that his relationship with his love interest/co-star, Khaffi Kareem is beyond the show BBnaija. Gedoni said that he would be open to date his co-star, Khafi after the ongoing Big Brother Naija season four ends. Gedoni, who was part of the romantic pair, Khadoni, while in the show revealed his intentions in an interview with host, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu, host of the programm Big Brother Naija (BBNaija). He said, “I see a future with Khafi outside the house. I don’t know how she feels but this is my thought. She is a keeper.” When asked to address the sex rumours, Gedoni told Ebuka that he would prefer Khafi answers the question when the show is over. He added, “I think I will allow Khafi to ask whether we had sex or not. There were intense moments but sex, no.” He detailed the moment he felt sparks for the bubbly Khafi and stated that his feelings for her were real. He said, “I had noticed her before then. I had really noticed her before then. “I looked at this character and she just radiated love, kindness, everything I would want to associate myself with. When asked if he loved Khafi as much as she loved him, Gedoni said, “You give out as much as you receive. “If Khafi was very expressive, there were certain things people were not seeing that she was enjoying. “For me, I had my own way and I was not very vocal or shouting about it but Khafi is not one to keep quiet. Ebuka also confronted Gedoni on his flirting and impending love triangle in Biggie’s House with Venita Akpofure. He maintained his earlier response that he had no feelings for her. He said, “I didn’t think for a second I was going to date Venita. I was never in love with Venita. On Venita’s obvious flirting, Gedoni said he might have gotten it wrong but he wanted to play the game. He said, “Khafi didn’t like it but she didn’t tell me until we had the talk and I told her I heard Venita had done the same thing to another couple. “That was when she understood the game and said go ahead.” Gedoni was evicted during the last Sunday eviction show, alongside Jackye. His eviction left Khaffi shaken and in tears. Big Brother Naija, BBNaija, Housemate, Gedoni has stirred reactions on social media over his relationship with Venita and Khafi. Gedoni and Venita on Sunday night engaged in a deep conversation regarding his relationship with Khafi. Venita started the conversation after Sunday live eviction show which had Ebuka Obi-Uchendu questioning Khafi… August 20, 2019 In "Entertainment" Big Brother Naija housemates, Khafi and Gedoni were again caught having s*x on Wednesday night in the BBNaija house. The BBNaija love ‘birds’ were seen having s*x, this time around before light out while others were awake. This caused reactions from fellow housemate, Esther who felt irritated by their actions.… August 15, 2019 In "Entertainment" Big Brother Naija 2019 housemate, Gedoni, on Tuesday talked about his encounters with Khafi. He opened up during a conversation with Frodd and Ike on Tuesday. Recall that Gedoni and Khafi had on three different occasions been caught in the house having s*x when other housemates were fast asleep. Revealing… July 31, 2019 In "Entertainment"