By Deborah Akpede Idimu (Lagos State) –  An Egbe-Idimu Customary Court in Lagos on Thursday dissolved a 13-year-old marriage between Mrs Olabisi Lukmon and her husband  Wahab over incompatibility and alleged infidelity. The mother of four had told the court that her husband, Wahab, falsely accused her of adultery. “My husband accused me of sleeping with a cleric. I only visit him for prayers, nothing more,” she said. The 37-year-old businesswoman said that her husband did not care for her and the children. “My husband is an irresponsible husband and father; he does not care for us. “He has stopped giving me money because he thinks that I will use it to get charms to use against him.” The petitioner said that her husband abandoned the home since March 2018. She begged the court to terminate the marriage that she was no longer interested and did not love him again. The respondent, Lukmon also pleaded with the court to grant his wife’s request for divorce because she had wanted him dead. The 40-year-old businessman alleged that after surviving an accident during a trip, his wife was not happy that he returned alive. “When I got home, my wife was angry to see me. the first question she asked me was so you did not die? I was perplexed. “I asked if she wanted me dead. She said yes because she wants to be a widower like my mother.” He said that his wife had stopped giving him food and also denying him sex. The respondent also alleged that his wife was behind his being shot with an arrow in his sleep. “After several investigations on the attack, I was told that my wife was behind the attack that she is having an affair with another man.” “I left my house since January for fear that Olabisi may come with another plan to terminate my life. “I urge the court to grant her wish for divorce,” he said. The court president, Mr Akwe Alfred, while delivering the judgment ,said that it appeared that the estranged couple were tired of the marriage and all efforts to reconcile both parties had failed. “Since both parties consented to the dissolution of their marriage, this court has no choice than to dissolve the marriage. “The court hereby pronounces the marriage between Mrs Olabisi Lukmon and Mr Wahab Lukmon dissolved today; both of you henceforth cease to be husband and wife. “Each of you should go on his or her separate ways unmolested, the court wishes both of you well in your future endeavor.” Alfred awarded the custody of the four children of the marriage to Olabisi and ordered Lukmon to be responsible for their feeding, education and general welfare.