By Pamela Eboh, Awka Following recent killings in the South-East zone by Fulani herdsmen, a member representing Aguata 1 constituency in the state House of Assembly, Mr. Carter Umeh, has called for the rearing of local breed cattle known locally as Efi Igbo in the state. He moved the motion during a plenary session at the assembly complex in Awka, stressing the need for Government to direct the Commissioner for Agriculture to come up with policies to establish structures that would promote indigenous cattle rearing. Umeh maintained that if good policies and established structures are instituted for indigenous cattle rearing, it will satisfy the state’s local meat consumption. He expressed fear that if continued patronage of cattle from other parts of the country is not stopped, the indigenous ones will go into extinction. The lawmaker said: “If local cow rearing is introduced, it will make more people within and outside the state to purchase native cows reared here at home and also encourage export to other parts of the world, as well as boost the state’s Internally Generated Revenue (IGR).” Seconding the motion, the member representing Anambra East Constituency, Mr Obinna Emenaka described the motion as a welcome development. He said that such gesture will spur Anambra people to engage in commercial Agriculture, especially the unemployed youths. According to him, local cow can also be used to bring out natural milk that will help in nourishing of the body. On his part, Mr Emmanuel Nwafor, representing Orumba South State Constituency said that rearing of Efi-Igbo was good for the state. According to him, it is the best option that will bring about the right procedure for the creation of standard ranches that would be emulated by all. Member representing Awka North State Constituency, Mr John Nwokoye, and his Oyi counterpart, Mr Charles Obimma, while supporting the motion said that if given adequate encouragement, the rearing of local cow in the state would become profitable. The motion was unanimously adopted by the House. Deputy Speaker Mr Paschal Agbodike, who presided over the sitting. 