By Bamigbola Gbolagunte, Akure The management of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko, Ondo State has confirmed that a female student of the university was raped by some soldiers attached to the military checkpoint in Ikare-Akoko. See https://sundiatapost.com/soldiers-allegedly-rape-university-student-at-checkpoint/ To this end, the management of the university has called on the authorities of the Nigerian Army to dismantle the checkpoint in Ikare-Akoko. Acting registrar of the university, Mr. Opeoluwa Akinfemiwa who confirmed the rape incident, said the university management had investigated the matter and found it to be true. He said: “The university condemns in its strongest term, the sexual assault on one of its students by one of the soldiers stationed at a checkpoint between Akungba Akoko and Ikare Akoko. “The university, after its preliminary investigation, noted with concern and amazement that a soldier of the Federal Republic Nigeria, whose duty, among others, is to protect the lives of its citizens can turn round to exhibit such reprobate tendencies. “The university, while commending the swift action taken so far by the Brigade Commander on this inhuman and brazen assault on a defenceless and innocent student, calls on the authorities of the Nigerian Army to deal decisively with the perpetrator(s) of the act against humanity. “While we are not unaware of the security situation in the country, we strongly request that the checkpoint be dismantled and the soldiers moved to between Oba-Akoko and Ose where kidnappings and robberies occur almost on a daily basis. “The university calls for calm and wish to assure the students that we will continue to ensure that adequate security measures are put in place to enable them to continue to pursue their academic activities without molestation,” he added. (Sunday Sun) By Bamigbola Gbolagunte, Akure A 300-level student (name withheld) of the Ondo State Government-owned Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko, was allegedly raped on Wednesday, by soldiers attached to the 32 Artillery Brigade of the Nigeria Army, Owena, Akure. Daily Sun gathered that the incident occurred at the military checkpoint at Ikare-Akoko,… August 2, 2019 In "Metro" The soldiers, who were attached to the Ikare Akoko checkpoint, allegedly raped the lady, a 300-level student at AAUA, while she was returning from the campus.   Some soldiers have allegedly raped a female student (name withheld) of the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko. The incident allegedly happened on Wednesday evening… August 2, 2019 In "Metro" It has come to the attention of the Management of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA) that some fraudulent individuals particularly one Prof. Okafor Igwebuike has designed a website platform in the name of the University to defraud the prospective candidates seeking admission into the various Academic Programmes of the University.… October 20, 2017 In "Education"