Former Nigerian captain Joseph Yobo said he regretted not seeing Onyekuru in action for Everton , before the attacker secured a move to French side AS Monaco. The 22-year-old joined the Toffees back in 2017 after impressive performance for Belgian side Eupen, however his inability to secure work permit in England saw him played for Anderletch and Galatasary on loan, before securing a permanent deal with Leonard Jadim’s Monaco in this current transfer window. While reacting to the deal, Yobo who made name for himself at the Mersyside club , voiced his regrets that the Nigerian international never had the opportunity to play in the English premier league. “He is a fantastic talent and I would have loved to see his deal [with Everton] go through but work permit restricted him from playing in the Premier League,” “But he has shown what he’s got at Galatasaray, very exciting to watch and he can score goals as well. I was happy seeing him play for Nigeria national team but he didn’t get that chance to play for Everton because he didn’t play more international games to give him the right.” “For me as an Evertonian, I feel he is a good prospect and would have been a great talent for Everton. He did very well at Galatasaray and was one of the fans’ favourites and if he had his way, he would have stayed to continue his progress but then, the club wanted to do a different business which was against his wish.” The former Olympique Marseille defender , however added that the French side are putting everything in place to have a good season and called upon Onyekuru to be at the center of the project. “Monaco is a good team but haven’t done well in the past few years. Everything is now new for Henry to prove himself again,” Yobo continued. “He would have been happy at Galatasaray and done more because he knows the club and their culture but in Monaco, he must prove himself. He is a striker, young and still learning the trade.” The forward is expected to make his debut when Monaco clash with Metz on Saturday. Source: Brilla