Men of the Ogun State Police Command on 24th July, 2019, arrested one Biodun Adelokun, a notorious Aiye cult member, on his way to eliminate a rival cult member in Ogijo area of Ogun State. The suspect was arrested by policemen attached to Ogijo Division, who were on routine patrol with the DPO, CSP Muhammed Baba. The team accosted three men on Bajaj motorcycle with registration number KJA 778 QH at Fakale Road, Ogijo, but on sighting the policemen, the three men took to their heels but were given a hot chase. The officers succeeded in arresting one of them with a bag. When the bag was searched, a locally made cut to size pistol, a live cartridge, an axe and assorted charms were recovered in it. On interrogation, the suspect confessed being a member of the dreaded Aiye cult group and the chief executioner of his group. He stated further that he was on his way with two others to eliminate a member of a rival cult group, who had been earmarked for execution by his own group before he was arrested by the DPO and his men. Meanwhile, the Ogun State Commissioner of Police, CP Bashir Makama, has ordered for a massive manhunt for the fleeing members of the gang as well as thorough investigation of the case. Source Police in Ogun State have arrested three suspected cult members and recovered a woman’s pants from them, NewTelegraph has reported. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Abimbola Oyeyemi, who confirmed this in a statement issued yesterday, said the recovered pants was tied with charms. Oyeyemi disclosed that a jack… May 13, 2019 In "Metro" By ‎Adesanya Akanbi, Abeokuta ABEOKUTA (Sundiata Post) - As part of effort aimed at tackling cultism and other criminal acts in the State, Ogun State Police Command command on Sunday arrested three suspected cultists who have been terrorising Oke-Oko and Igborufu communities in Ogijo, Sagamu local government area with arms… March 14, 2016 In "Metro" By Moses Omorogieva Lagos - No fewer than 21 suspected cult members of two rival groups, Eiye and Aiye confraternities, in Ikorodu area of Lagos, have been arrested after a clash that left two persons dead and many injured. Sources told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that different weapons, including guns,… June 7, 2019 In "Metro"