By Alaba-Olusola Oke Akure – The Deji of Akure Kingdom, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi, has commended Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State for his developmental initiatives in the town, saying “Akure people are happy with the governor”. The monarch gave the commendation on Thursday at the flag-off of the reconstruction of Akure-Oda Road to a dual carriageway. Aladelusi said Akure people were particularly grateful to Akeredolu for changing the face of the town with massive road projects. The traditional ruler noted that some of the roads had been completed while others were ongoing in the state capital. He said that the Akeredolu led-government had touched every nook and cranny of the state, adding that the ancient town would always support the governor. Aladelusi, who also commended the governor for the “prudent management” of the state’s resources, said that unprecendented massive infrastructural development in the state had earned the governor the new name of “Mr Road”. “Some people are insinuating that I don’t like Gov. Akeredolu. “If the governor is doing all these projects in my town and I am not happy with him, God may be angry with me. All Akure indigenes are happy with him. “The government has touched everywhere. Akure people can’t thank you enough. You didn’t mismanage Ondo State money. People now call you Mr. Road, Arakunrin Road,” Aladelusi said. Responding, Akeredolu thanked the monarch for recognising the efforts of his administration in the state, particularly in Akure. He said he was not bothered by the rumour mongers claiming that there was no love between him and the Deji of Akure. The governor added that no matter what rumour mongers said, the love he has for the monarch and the people of Akure would not reduce. The governor also said he would reconstruct the eight-kilometre Oda Road in order to ease the pains of motorists. “As a responsive and responsible administration, with the conception, berth and the impending delivery of a qualitative project like this, we are delivering a new asset, a new lifestyle, a new era of property appreciation and, of course, we are bequeathing an enduring legacy to our incoming generation,” he said. Akeredolu said the eight-kilometre dual carriageway would serve as a precursor to an unending positive multiplier effects on the economy and the people. According to him, the completion of the project will lead to decrease in travel time, increase in lifespan of vehicles and increased interconnectivity with other roads such as the Oba Osupa-Hospital-Ijoka Road. (NAN)