The Ebonyi State Government, on Monday reminded the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) that it remains an unlawful organisation and warned its members against organising any activity in the state. Members of the group had last week organised protests in Abakaliki, the State capital, against the suspended RUGA settlement for herdsmen and other policies of Federal Government. But the Ebonyi State Government warned members of the public against further participation in the activities of the organisation. In a statement issued by Secretary to the State Government, Dr. Kenneth Ugbala, and the state Commissioner for Information and State Orientation, Chief Kenneth Uhuo, the government advised parents and guardians not to allow their children and wards to engage in any unauthorised gatherings as according to it, security agencies have been mobilised to deal with any individual or group found to be involved in any unlawful gathering in the state. It noted that constructive engagement with the Federal Government will address all grievances of the Igbo in the country, adding that any individual or group that has any genuine reason to agitate should do so through the platforms of the South East Governors Forum, Ohanaeze Ndigbo and other legitimate means within the country. The statement reads: “The attention of the general public is hereby drawn to a Federal High Court order, which proscribed IPOB since September 2017 and classified it as a terrorist organisation in Nigeria. “By that order, the IPOB has become an unlawful organisation, and all its activities become criminal within the provisions of the Terrorism (Prevention) Act of 2011. “Members of the public are therefore warned that any participation in the activities of the organisation, under whatever guise has become an offence punishable under various laws of the country. As a responsible government committed to maintaining law and order, the state government is not going to allow IPOB to endanger lives and property of their citizens, by organising any form of activity in the state. “Any individual or group that has any genuine reason to agitate should do so through the platforms of the South East Governors Forum, the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, and through other legitimate means within the Nigerian federation. “The Ebonyi State Government reiterates its belief that constructive engagement with the federal government shall gradually address all grievances of the Igbos in Nigeria. “Traditional rulers and Town Union leaders should be vigilant, and not hesitate to report to security agencies every suspicious movement in their domains.”