The administration of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State on Monday rose from a crucial meeting with Vigilante/Nieghbourhood Watch groups in the 17 local government areas of the state and took decisive decisions towards strengthening the security of the state. A statement by the Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Simon Ortuanya, shortly after the meeting, stated that the state government upon reviewing the security situation in the state, resolved to send an Anti-kidnapping Bill to the state assembly as an Executive Bill, to ensure maximum security. According the statement, the state government also resolved to immediately overhaul the Vigilante/ Neighbourhood Watch structure in the state for optimized service delivery, adding that the Enugu State Neigbourhood Watch Law 2016 will equally be reviewed. Gov. Ugwuanyi’s administration further resolved to employ 1,700 Forest Guards within 30 days, comprising 100 persons per Local Government Area, in compliance with the recent decision of the South East Governors Forum on Community Policing. It informed interested applicants with passion for service to submit their application at the office of the Security Chief of the Department of State Services (DSS) in their respective local government areas of origin for necessary action. The state government also approved the payment of stipends to 5,200 Vigilante/Neighbourhood Watch personnel comprising 20 persons per ward in the state, reassuring its commitment to the peace and security of lives and property. Source: The Nation By Ifeoma Aka Enugu - The Enugu State Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi has said that security of lives and property will be his topmost priority in his second term. Ugwuanyi made the disclosure in Enugu on Wednesday after oath taking of his second tenure as the governor of Enugu State.… May 29, 2019 In "News" Kano - Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State has signed the Anti-kidnapping, Abduction and Forced Labour Bill into law after its passage by the state’s House of Assembly.. Ganduje signed the bill‎ on Tuesday during the weekly State Executive Council (SEC) meeting at the Government House, Kano. He said that… November 23, 2016 In "News" Enugu- Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State has assured people of the state that the Child’s Right Bill would soon be passed into law to enable children to attain their maximum potentials. Ugwuanyi gave the assurance on Monday shortly after the plenary of the Enugu State Children’s Parliament held at… August 3, 2015 In "News"