Abuja (Sundiata Post) –  Despite the recent recognition of the $9.6 billion arbitration award by a UK court, and contrary to some reports, Nigeria is not about to lose any of its assets to P&ID. Minister of Information and National Orientation, Alhaji Lai Mohammed who spoke on the matter on Tuesday at a press conference in Abuja declared “there is no imminent threat to Nigeria’s assets!” However, in an attempt to unravel the circumstances surrounding the entire transaction, Mohammed disclosed that federal government has mandated the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) along with National Intelligence Agency (NIA) and Nigeria Police to investigate P$ID and the contract. “Attorney General of the Federation, with the approval of Mr. President, has requested the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) and the Inspector General of Police (IGP) to conduct a thorough investigation into the company, the circumstances surrounding the agreement and the subsequent event, which includes commencing a full-scale criminal investigation,” he stated.   Abuja- The Forum of Spokespersons of Security and Response Agencies (FOSSRA), has pledged to support Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to ensure free, fair, credible and non-violent elections. This is contained in a communiqué on its first meeting for 2015 in Abuja on Wednesday and signed by Major-Gen. Chris Olukolade and… January 21, 2015 In "News" Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) has declared a former Director General of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Amb. Ayodele Oke and his wife, Folasade, wanted in connection with alleged N13billion fraud. The cash had to do with $43,449,947, £27,800 and N23,218,000 recovered… March 24, 2019 In "Top Stories" A Civil Rights Group, Transparency Coalition of Nigeria (TCN) has called on the President-Elect, General Mohammed Buhari to insulate the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) from being manipulated by politicians to witch-hunt perceived enemies when he assumes office. In a statement issued by its secretary general, Mr Peter Gimba… May 12, 2015 In "News"