By OKUNADE ADEKUNLE The rejection of three Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu commissioner nominees by the Lagos State House of Assembly on Monday for confirmation is unconnected with the intensify power struggle and show of strength by the contending political forces/blocs in the Asiwaju Bola Tinubu political dynasty. Those rejected were Ms Adekemi Ajayi Bembe, Mr Samuel Obafemi George and Prince Olanrewaju Sanusi. It was learnt that before the nomination of those rejected, there were serious battle among the three contending forces which one is headed by former Governor of Osun State, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola and Sen. Sikiru Osinowo (Pepper), another power bloc spearheaded by former Minister of State For Defence, Sen. Musiliu Obanikoro and the third bloc was headed by a staunch Tinubu political associate and Lagos indigene, Prince Tajudeen Olusi. According to sources, the Aregbesola/Osinowo bloc was seriously against the initial recommendation of the trio by their various leaders as they had their own loyalists from the local governments where the rejected nominees came from. The sources further disclosed that Aregbesola/Osinowo felt aggrieved that some local governments where some staunch members of the Mandate Movement who are loyal to them and who worked tirelessly for the emergence of Sanwoolu were not carried along in the list and so were waiting to use the House of Assembly to edge the nominees out since the Aregbesola/Osinowo camp has the control of the House. ” What happened at the House of Assembly was a show of strength between Tinubu boys. Some of his strong footsoldiers are not happy that their own people are not carried along. The Aregbesola/Osinowo camp is bitter and ready to crush any contending forces in the Tinubu political dynasty to continue to determine who gets what in the state and party”, said the sources ” I want to let you know that the House of Assembly is populated with strong loyalists of Aregbesola/Osinowo bloc and they are ready to do their bidding anytime anyday. The other two blocs which are headed by Obanikoro and some Justice Forum leaders and also the third force controlled by core Lagos Indigenes and the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) whose face is Prince Tajudeen Olusi in the Tinubu political dynasty were the ones their candidates dropped” The sources added ” If you could remember that during the screening exercise, Sen. Obanikoro and the White Cap Chiefs followed one of the rejected nominees, Ms Adekemi Ajayi Bembe to the House of Assembly to witness her screening exercise. Even, Obanikoro personally sat in the midst of the screening committee to boost the confidence of the Lagos indigene and for her soft landing while the screening chairman did not allow the White Cap Chiefs into the screening chamber” ” On the last day of the screening of the first batch, Sen. Osinowo came to witness the exercise which he may have used to lobby the lawmakers being a former ranking member of the House”, the sources added They further stated that one of the rejected nominees, Prince Olanrewaju Sanusi(PLS) was recommended by the Obanikoro camp from Amuwo Odofin local government but was not backed by the two local governments chairmen and some Mandate Movement leaders in the two local governments loyal to Aregbesola/Osinowo power bloc. The leaders have their own choice in person of Hon. Risikat Adegeye, a former member of Lagos House of Assembly and the APC House of Representatives candidate in the last general elections. The sources explained that PLS was not seen as part of them in Amuwo Odofin local government and so they believe he can’t be forced on them as their representative in Sanwoolu’s cabinet. “The hands of the leadership and members are full, there was serious pressure on them to take the decision”, said the sources Political Analysts opined that the rejection of the trio by the lawmakers would further intensify the power play among the three political forces contending for relevance and supremacy in the Tinubu political dynasty. They are of the view that if not well managed as the Sanwoolu administration is yet to ignite the movement of his administration vehicle, the crisis may affect the successful running of the administration as the three contending forces may take their relevance and supremacy battle to governance over who controls and benefits what in the government.