Moscow –  Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday warned that Moscow would be forced to start developing short and intermediate-range land-based nuclear missiles if the U.S. started doing so after the demise of a landmark arms control treaty. The U.S. formally left the Intermediate Nuclear Forces (INF) treaty with Russia on Friday after determining that Moscow was violating the treaty and had already deployed at least one banned type of missile, an accusation the Kremlin denies. The pact banned land-based missiles with a range of between 310 miles and 3,400 miles (500-5,500 km), reducing the ability of both countries to launch a nuclear strike on short notice. Putin on Monday held a meeting with his Security Council after which he ordered the defence and foreign ministries and Russia’s SVR foreign intelligence service to closely monitor any steps the U.S. took to develop, produce or deploy missiles banned under the defunct treaty. “If Russia obtains reliable information that the U.S. has finished developing these systems and started to produce them Russia will have no option other than to engage in a full-scale effort to develop similar missiles,” Putin said in a statement. In the meantime, he said Russia’s arsenal of air and sea-launched missiles combined with its work on developing hypersonic missiles meant it was well placed to offset any threat emanating from the U.S. It was now essential, he added, for Moscow and Washington to resume arms control talks to prevent what he described as an “unfettered” arms race breaking out. “In order to avoid chaos with no rules, restrictions or laws, we need to once more weigh up all the dangerous consequences and launch a serious and meaningful dialogue free from any ambiguity,” Putin said. (Reuters/NAN) Moscow -   President Vladimir Putin of Russia on Thursday accused the U.S. of raising the risk of nuclear war by threatening to spurn a key arms control treaty. In a news conference that lasted more than three hours, Putin , however, backed U.S. President Donald Trump’s decision to pull… December 20, 2018 In "Foreign" Berlin - German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas has expressed concern over Russian nuclear weapons in proximity to European countries, in remarks published on Thursday by the Redaktionsnetzwerk Deutschland media group. “Despite all the appeals and offers of dialogue, Russia is refusing to destroy systems banned under the treaties and has… August 1, 2019 In "Foreign" Moscow - Russian state television has listed U.S. military facilities that Moscow would target in the event of a nuclear strike. The television station also said that a hypersonic missile Russia is developing would be able to hit them in less than five minutes. The targets included the Pentagon and… February 25, 2019 In "Foreign"