Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Nigerian Army has inducted and operationalised four newly acquired Mine Resistant Anti Ambush Protected vehicles (MRAPs) in the North East theatre of operation. This is to
enhance fire power and protection of troops fighting Boko Haram and Islamic
State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) terrorists. A statement from Col. Sagir Musa, acting director army public relations said, “the Nigerian Army in partnership with Proforce Nigeria Limited, – an indigenous Armour Vehicle Manufacturing Company based in Ode-Remo in Ogun State had delivered the first ever Nigerian Army – Proforce locally manufactured MRAPs, four of which were inaugurated on August 1, 2019 by the Chief of Defence Staff, General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin, at the Nigerian Army Resource Centre, Abuja.” The statement
quoted the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen Tukur Yusufu Buratai, represented by the
Chief of Training and Operations (Army) Maj Gen EO Udoh, as saying that the
induction of the MRAPs would boost the operational capability and protection of
the troops to decisively prosecute the ongoing counter insurgency operations. “He reminded
the troops that equipment alone without strong will and determination by men
cannot win wars, he therefore charged them to remain resolute in the discharge
of their duties and strengthen their commitment to end the war against
terrorism soon. “While
appreciating the efforts of the Special Forces in the fight against terrorism,
especially the recapture of Baga by the Special Forces, he assured them of
Nigerian Army’s continued support to specialised training as well as improved
welfare to enhance the effectiveness of the Special Forces. “Earlier, the
Commander Nigerian Army Special Forces Command, Maj. Gen. Mhounday Gadzama Ali,
said the provision of the MRAPs and other equipment by the COAS will spur the
Command in their dogged struggles to wipe out the remnants of Boko Haram and
ISWAP Terrorists soon. “As part of the concern
the leadership of the Army has for the troops, the representative of the COAS
delivered the COAS goodwill message and had lunch with the troops after
inspecting an ongoing renovation work in the camp,” the statement added.