In what will come across as a really shocking development, a man has shot his own brother-in-law dead in Delta. One of the burnt buildings According to a report , the residents of the NDDC Road in Amukpe, Sapele Local Government Area of Delta State, are mourning the alleged killing of a man identified simply as Pius by his sister’s husband over infidelity. The fleeing suspect, whose identity is still unknown, was reported to have shot his brother-in-law following an altercation that ensued between the couple over the infidelity allegation. It was gathered that the incident occurred on Saturday. It was learnt that the fleeing husband shot the deceased in one of his eyes and Pius died on the spot. Sources told Punch Metro on Sunday that the deceased was a younger brother to the man’s wife. Trouble reportedly started when the man accused his wife of infidelity, a situation that resulted in heated argument between the couple. In the heat of the argument, the wife reportedly left her matrimonial home to her mother’s place. While the wife, whose name could not also be ascertained at the time of filing this report, was still at her mother’s home, the husband reportedly visited his mother-in-law’s place and demanded that his wife should return home with him, which caused another round of argument. The wife’s young brother, however, objected to the demand. The incident later snowballed into an argument between the man and his in-laws. A resident of the area, who pleaded anonymity, told our correspondent, “The man felt enraged because his wife’s younger brother insulted him over the quarrel with his wife. The man, being a hunter, returned the following morning with a gun and shot Pius in the left eye. Pius died on the spot.“The suspect also attempted shooting the wife and her mum, but there were no more cartridges in the gun.” As a result of the incident, youths in the area mobilised and burnt down two bungalows belonging to the suspect and his brother. The suspect’s brother was alleged to be having an affair with the runaway wife of the man. Sources told our correspondent that the woman denied sleeping with her husband’s brother. They added that the suspect’s brother was wrongly accused, which led to his house being burnt down by the mob. A police officer from the Sapele Area Command confirmed the development, saying the wife did not mention the husband’s brother as the person she was having an affair with. Meanwhile, the Delta State Police Command said it had launched a manhunt for the fleeing man and investigation into the incident had commenced. The state Police Commissioner, Adeyinka Adeleke, stated this on Sunday while confirming the killing of Pius to our correspondent on the telephone.“We’re aware of the case. We haven’t been able to arrest the suspect, but we have launched a manhunt for him. He’s on the run. We are investigating the incident. It’s when the prime suspect is arrested that we can get the details of what made him kill his wife’s brother,” he said. Source By Igbaugba Ehigimetor   Benin   -     A 35-year old man suspect, identified as Uwaila, on Sunday shot dead his wife and two sons in Edo, accusing her of infidelity. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the incident happened at Ovbiogie village in Ovia North East Local Government Area… January 13, 2019 In "Metro" Lagos - An Alimosho Customary Court in Lagos on Thursday dissolved a 17-year-old marriage between Ajoke Ayoola and her husband, Omotayo, for infidelity and frequent beatings. In her judgment, the President of the court, Alhaja S.O Mumuni, said the petitioner was adamant despite all mediation from the court and family intervention.… January 14, 2016 In "News" Lagos- A man, Ugochukwu Anyanwu, on Friday pleaded with an Ojo Customary Court in Lagos to dissolve his five-year -old marriage over alleged infidelity by his wife. Anyanwu told the court that his wife, Emmacule,was having extra marital affairs with several men. "The trouble is too much; she has gone… December 5, 2014 In "News"