By Thompson Yamput Zoning Jos – The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Governorship Candidate in the 2019 general elections in Plateau, Sen. Jeremiah Useni, says Nigeria cannot not afford to abandon zoning now in her Democratic pursuits. Useni made the remark while in audience with some party officials, elders, and stakeholders from Zawan district of Jos South Local Government Area of Plateau. ” Nigeria is not yet mature politically to jettison the zoning arrangement that has been producing leaderships at different levels of society and from diverse communities. “Rotational leadership is best for us for now. It gives people the freedom and opportunity to be involved in establishing and running the government of their choice at different levels. “Nigeria is not yet ripe to have leaders produced from only one area all the time and so deny others. Even in the days of military rule, leadership was always balanced to give fair representation to all parts of the country. “If you allow only specific areas to produce leaderships, it will breed bitterness, hatred and crisis because many communities will feel left out in the running of their own affairs,” he said. The retired Army General appealed to the Zawan delegation to stay united, work hard and pray for the victory of the PDP in all the tribunals. “When we receive positive judgement at the tribunal, we will set up a government that will be inclusive and correct the many imbalances in our representations. We must unite the people of Plateau in our governance,” he said. Earlier, leader of the delegation, Mr James Stephen-Pam, said that they were in Useni’s residence to show support, solidarity and to pray with him for victory at the election petition Tribunal. Stephen-Pam stated that PDP leaders, supporters and stakeholders in Zawan had full confidence in Useni’s leadership and ” that is why the party supported you fully during the primaries as well as giving the highest number of votes among all the districts in Jos South in the general elections.” (NAN) 