The police are currently in a cold war with their army counterparts after the latter shot and killed three officers of the former in Taraba State. The police accuses the military of summarily executing its officers who were escorting an arrested kidnap kingpin from Taraba to the force headquarters in Abuja. The army had explained its men mistook the police officers are kidnappers – an explanation the Police refuses to accept. Meanwhile it has become a dramatic spectacle for Nigerians on social media – but not in a comic sense at all. Where is Muhammadu Buhari @MBuhari you are always defending? Where is the Commander-in-chief that sets you to trample on people?Same Twitter you abuse us for being is where you are today.Muhammadu Buhari  will destroy this country and leave us in hell.We are all affected https://t.co/HQQQz8IPfH Nigeria Police and Army are fighting. Who will first declare the other a Terrorist Organization? Let us in the same spirit remember that the @PoliceNG went to harvest the wounded members of Shiites in the hospital where they were receiving treatment for gunshot wounds and kept them in custody without medical attention. All they did was protest peacefully. They’re Humans. You can’t hold the @HQNigerianArmy accountable to the very same public the @PoliceNG are not accountable to. The two critical institutions have fallen from Gliry as rigged against the Public they were meant to serve and protect. The time to heal is now. #RiseAsOne pic.twitter.com/xcaqsDqQK7 It is strange that the national tragedy with murder of IRT team by soldiers is taken as a joke by most. These officers were part of the finest of our squads at that unit with many incredible feats on the field. They were extrajudicially murdered & this must never be trivialized. You see how it hurts when you lots shoot civilians like birds and you ignore questions directed at you? Are you scared the Army might normalize it? Well…that's the same fear every civilian in Nigeria lives with today. All life matters or don't. 🚶 Army shot police Police calls out army on twitter (calling them murderers) Army calls police liars said they were suspected kidnappers Police starts trending #ProvideAnswersNigerianArmy Commander in chief👇🏼 pic.twitter.com/WAnqejnHLK So I have a question, if civilians decide to stage a protest in Solidarity with the Policemen killed by Soldiers in Taraba, won’t the police beat and teargas us?#ProvideAnswersNigerianArmy Exactly what SARS does to some of our young men. They brand them fraudsters and cultists. They harass, molest, intimidate and exploit them. Sometimes, they even shoot them dead. https://t.co/97lBhdogF5 Police caught kidnap kingpin. Army killed police and set kingpin free.We wouldn't even have known until the country's head of police (IGP) informed us.Do you, Twitter people, understand how dire the Nigerian situation is? Nigerian Police gotta be humble and report this soldier matter to Segalink.