By Vivian Ibobo Lagos   –     A trader, Immaculate Otam, 35, on Monday appeared before an Ikeja Magistrates’ Court in Lagos over an alleged theft of a month-old baby. Otam, who resides in Okota area of Lagos State, is facing a two-count charge of breach of peace and stealing, to which she pleaded not guilty. The Prosecutor, Insp. Edet Akadu, had told the court that Otam committed the offences on July 29, at No. 299, Agege Motor Road, Mushin in Lagos State. He alleged that the defendant conducted herself in a manner likely to cause breach of peace by entering into the apartment of Mr and Mrs Badmus and stealing the newborn baby, but was apprehended. The prosecutor said the offences contravened Sections 278 and 168 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the sections provide three years jail term for stealing. The Magistrate, Mr K.O. Ogundare, admitted the defendant to bail in the sum of N200, 000 with two sureties in the like sum and adjourned the case until Oct. 9. Lagos - The police on Tuesday arraigned a 34-year-old trader, Joy Godwill in an Apapa Magistrates' Court in Lagos State for stealing N58,000. [pro_ad_display_adzone id="70560"] defendant, with no fixed address, is facing a two-count charge of conspiracy and stealing. The prosecutor, Insp. Tony Elibeh, told the court that the offences… March 16, 2016 In "Metro" By Adenike Ayodele Ikeja - A 34-year-old businessman, Innocent Osanebi, on Thursday appeared in before an Ikeja Chief Magistrates’ Court over alleged N4.3 million theft from his father. Osanebi, who resides at No.31, Bakara St., Ojodu Berger, Lagos State, is facing a  three-count charge of stealing, threat to life and… May 30, 2019 In "Metro" LAGOS - A 34-year-old bodyguard, Joseph Agada, on Monday appeared before an Ikeja Chief Magistrates' Court in Lagos over alleged break-in and theft of properties valued at N175,000. The accused, who resides at No.21A, Adekunle Fajuyi St., GRA, Ikeja in Lagos State, is facing a two-count charge of stealing and… November 17, 2014 In "News"