Comedienne, Anita Asuoha, popularly known to her fans as Real Warri Pikin has opened up on her thriving career and life Background I am from Delta State. My father is Ijaw from the Burutu Local Government Area of the state, while my mother is Urhobo. I am the third of six children. We were born and brought up in Warri. Education I have a Bachelor in Political Science/Public Administration from the Benson Idahosa University. I graduated second class upper degree in 2012. Comedy I discovered my comedy talent through depression. When I was in school, I used to dance professionally, host events, and do stand-up comedy. However, I didn’t really take it seriously. Last year, I fell into depression. I didn’t have money, and a lot of things went wrong. I just said to myself, “why not start making videos to motivate and inspire people in a funny way”? And here I am today. Acceptance It happened so quickly. People just accepted it and I began to work on it. The acceptance has been mind blowing. I am still in shock. I realised that people like originality. People like originality, and that is what I am bringing to the table. The acceptance has been good– 100 per cent. Challenges One of the challenges I encountered was that people told me to leave social media because I am a woman. “Go and take care of your children, this is not what you are supposed to do.” You know how the society keeps women in a box. That was one of the challenges I encountered when I started. Female comedians Female comedians are underestimated because it is believed that it is a man’s world. Due to this, a lot of female comedians are in their shell. They believe they cannot do it better, saying to themselves, “It’s a man’s world.” It is indeed a male-dominated industry. I feel female comedians should be given a chance because it’s really not just a man’s world. Anybody can be funny, regardless of gender. Privacy What I miss most is my privacy. Now, I am a public figure and I don’t have privacy anywhere I go. Last week, I went to the hospital because I was sick. I just wanted to do a test and get medication. But people were all over taking pictures . I don’t have my space anymore, and that is what I miss. Real Warri Pikin The inspiration behind the name, Real Warri Pikin, is that my brand of comedy is all about Warri. I am from Warri and I am promoting Warri, so my name has to reflect that. Warri inspired my name. Failed joke/skit Not really. However, it’s not all jokes that are funny to people. There are some people who have problems bigger than your joke. There are some people that cannot relate with certain jokes. There are some jokes that I will share that only people who have passed through that path will be able to relate to and laugh hard. I don’t think I have had any failed joke– it all depends on how it is delivered. Movies My first time on a movie set was disastrous. For everything that I do, the movie thing is a bit difficult for me. I am still trying to get used to it. It’s not easy at all. It was not good. I slept on set. I was tired and I kept missing my lines. Now, I think I am better. Achievements My greatest achievement will be uplifting people. I get testimonies every day from people about how my skits uplift them. How they have a better marriage, a better relationship, a better career, and are no longer depressed because of things I said. I have got mind blowing testimonies and I think, that is by far, my greatest achievement. Balance It’s really not easy but I do it effortlessly because of the man I am married to. I am not just married to a man; I am married to an angel. He makes everything easy for me. He is selfless and makes submission easy. He allows me to be me. The man I am married to makes it easy for me to be able to balance my career and the home front. Advice The advice that has been instrumental to the growth of my career would be that of my husband. If he tells me something and I do the opposite, it goes wrong. So far, my husband has been my number one fan, adviser, and supporter. Other people support me too, but my husband is number one. Giving up Sometimes, you feel tired and exhausted. But of course, one has to keep pushing as we all have only one life. I have really never thought of quitting because I have the right people around me and I am very focused. Fashion I have always dressed like a tomboy. I don’t like make-up. I don’t like to wear dresses. Right now, I have to do all that because of the ‘gram’, events, red carpet appearances and all. I always love to be free, to be able to wear jeans, trousers and slippers.