Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar says the Buhari administration is desperate to accuse ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo of a crime so as to silence him. In a statement issued on Monday,
Atiku’s media office said the inclusion of Obasanjo’s name in the list of tax
defaulters by the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) was to blackmail him. It said the Economic and
Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) was feeding the media with falsehood to
cause disaffection between Obasanjo and his former deputy. “The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission is feeding members of the media with deliberate falsehoods in an attempt to cause disaffection and bad blood between former President Olusegun Obasanjo and his former deputy, Atiku Abubakar, on one hand, and between former President Obasanjo and Nigerians in general,’’ the statement read. “For the avoidance of doubt,
Mallam Babalele Abdullahi, Atiku Abubakar’s son-in-law, did not donate any
money in cash to the Olusegun Obasanjo Library. Yes, he did facilitate a
donation of fifty million naira to the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library,
but so did many other individuals, including civic-minded traditional rulers,
state Governors, bankers and captains of industry. “This is because the Olusegun
Obasanjo Presidential Library is a non-governmental organisation that plays a
pivotal role in promoting peace and stability in Nigeria, and that should be
applauded.’’ Referring to Buhari, the media
office said unlike “another past leader, who did not improve himself or Nigeria
after leaving office, but sat down nursing grudges and plotting revenge, former
President Olusegun Obasanjo improved himself and Nigeria by authoring books,
founding international think tanks and engaging in peace and capacity building
efforts’’. “Donations to institutions set up
to promote peace in Nigeria and Africa are to be commended, not criminalised.
Presidential libraries in America and other parts of the world are similarly
funded by donations from civic-minded individuals,’’ it said. ‘’For the avoidance of doubt,
Mallam Abdullahi’s donation of fifty million naira was made via a bank
transfer, in full compliance with the law. He did not donate or make any
payment in cash, as the EFCC is erroneously and salaciously misleading the
public. Furthermore, the sources of these funds are completely legitimate and
have been conclusively proven to the EFCC. It is instructive to note that even
the EFCC has not once claimed these funds to be the proceeds of any illegal
activity whatsoever. “The truth is that there is
desperation on the part of the current administration to rope in former
President Olusegun Obasanjo into a crime as a way of silencing his voice, which
they see as the preeminent critical voice against the misrule that they have
foisted on Nigerians. “This is why they asked the
Federal Inland Revenue Service to falsely and libelously include his name in a
published list of tax evaders, along with the names of other People’s
Democratic Party sympathisers, such as prominent international singer and pride
of Nigeria, Davido, who played a prominent role in PDP’s gubernatorial campaign
in Osun state, for which he is being punished.’’ The media office said the EFCC has become a propaganda agency and that the presidency, APC, the EFCC, The FIRS and The Nation ‘’are now working together as five fingers of the same leprous hands’’. (TheCable).