Popular search engine, Google Chrome, has made updates to the browser and here is everything users need to know. The newest version of Chrome, 76, recently started rolling out for users on all platforms and makes a number of substantial changes for users. First, the browser will now block Adobe Flash content by default – Chrome has joined a number of other popular browsers in making such a move. Adobe has declared it will remove support for Flash fully by the end of 2020 – the move from Google cements the end for the format. Next, Chrome 76 makes a few changes to its signature Incognito Mode that, when enabled, kickstarts a number of extra privacy features for users. Last month Google announced it would remedy a loophole that allowed sites to detect if a user was harnessing Incognito or not – the firm said it was making the move to ensure users could browse privately if they so desire. The tech giant said: “Chrome’s Incognito Mode is based on the principle that you should have the choice to browse the web privately. At the end of July, Chrome will remedy a loophole that has allowed sites to detect people who are browsing in Incognito Mode. “People choose to browse the web privately for many reasons. Some wish to protect their privacy on shared or borrowed devices, or to exclude certain activities from their browsing histories. “In situations such as political oppression or domestic abuse, people may have important safety reasons for concealing their web activity and their use of private browsing features. “We want you to be able to access the web privately, with the assurance that your choice to do so is private as well. These principles are consistent with emerging web standards for private browsing modes.” Chrome 76 implements this change; a byproduct of the alteration is that sites allowing users to read a certain number of free articles will no longer be able to track how many a user has opened. This means fans could theoretically bypass some internet paywalls. Google admitted sites may have to change how they handle their paywall implementation with the release of Chrome 76. The American firm noted however it would not make any alterations to Chrome that “undermines the principles of Incognito Mode”. Google went on: “Our News teams support sites with meter strategies and recognise the goal of reducing meter circumvention, however any approach based on private browsing detection undermines the principles of Incognito Mode. “We remain open to exploring solutions that are consistent with user trust and private browsing principles.” In addition to its changes for Incognito and Flash, Chrome 76 also introduces over 40 security fixes for users. Chrome 76 is rolling out right now for all platforms. The Nation