LAGOS – Gunshots rent the air on Monday morning as well-armed policemen and soldiers chased and forcibly dispersed members of the RevolutionNow movement who converged on the National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos. “The protesters, who arrived at the stadium around 7am on Monday, for the kick-off of the protest met a detachment of policemen at the entrance of the stadium. “Some soldiers later joined the policemen,” reports TheCable. It quoted one of the protesters by name Eliaz Ozikpu as lamenting that he was discussing the protest plans with others when security operatives crossed over the road to meet them. “We were standing here, while they watched us from the other side. Suddenly, they moved on us and said we can’t talk to the press. We weren’t even talking to the press yet. We were addressing ourselves,” Ozikpu was quoted as saying. “The protesters, however, started chanting calling for the release of Omoyele Sowore, convener of the movement who was arrested Saturday by operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS),” the report added. Both the Police and The Presidency had categorised the protest as treasonable felony and warned the organisers to abandon the venture but lawyers and activists disagreed, saying that street protest cannot be regarded as treason. Badagry (Lagos State)  - The youths in Badagry, Lagos State, on Friday violently protested the alleged killing of one Mr Joshua Sewuji by an unidentified policeman from the Badagry Police Division. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that protesters resorted to damaging and burning police posts and tyres on… December 4, 2015 In "Top Stories" It was a second day of blood shed again in Abuja, the nation’s capital as members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria clashed with the police at the popular Banex junction, Wuse 2. Security operatives stationed their vehicles at the junction, waiting for the protesters following hints that the Shi’ites… July 23, 2019 In "News" Asaba - No fewer than seven persons have been confirmed dead following protest by members of the Movement for the Actualisation of Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), in Asaba on Monday. The Acting Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), in Delta, SP Charles Muka, who confirmed this in a statement, added… May 30, 2016 In "News"