Following reports that Big Brother Naija housemate, Khafi Kareem is at the verge of being sacked by Metro Police over her conduct at the reality show, her management has issued a statement. Recall the The Sun UK earlier published the report revealing that Khafi didn’t obtain permission from her bosses before going the the show, her management has now rubbished the claim and clarified issues pertaining to the news. Read what the management posted below: ATTENTION! ATTENTION!! ATTENTION!!! The attention of Khafi’s management has been drawn to a publication by The Sun UK of Tuesday, August 13, 2019, titled “LOIN OF DUTY Met Police ‘poster girl’ faces sack for ‘having sex’ on Nigerian Big Brother after being told not to take part”. This brazenly sensational and defamatory outburst by The Sun UK is written in poor taste without considering the ethics of journalism which seeks balance and objectivity. At NO time did The Sun UK send a mail of inquiry to Khafi’s official email which is blasted across her social media platforms under active management to confirm or refute the claims in the publication. Khafi’s side of the story is deliberately and conveniently omitted to sell a pre-conceived narrative while responses from “outraged colleagues” and “other papers” riddle the publication. This comes from a repressive culture of shaming and characterizing women for their sexual decisions and life choices. We find The Sun UK’s publication repulsive and damaging to the image and livelihood of our client. Khafi is a proud black female police officer who prides herself in her work and has dedicated her youthful years protecting and serving with her many skills which include the ability to speak at least five international languages. We demand an immediate retraction of the publication by The Sun UK and a public apology to our client Khafilat Kareem within the next 48 hours. Legal options are also being considered at this time. Thank you. Signed Management ATTENTION! ATTENTION!! ATTENTION!!! The attention of Khafi's management has been drawn to a publication by The Sun UK  of Tuesday, August 13, 2019, titled "LOIN OF DUTY Met Police ‘poster girl’ faces sack for ‘having sex’ on Nigerian Big Brother after being told not to take part". This brazenly sensational and defamatory outburst by The Sun UK is written in poor taste without considering the ethics of journalism which seeks balance and objectivity. At NO time did The Sun UK send a mail of inquiry to Khafi's official email which is blasted across her social media platforms under active management to confirm or refute the claims in the publication. Khafi's side of the story is deliberately and conveniently omitted to sell a pre-conceived narrative while responses from "outraged colleagues" and "other papers" riddle the publication. This comes from a repressive culture of shaming and characterizing women for their sexual decisions and life choices. We find The Sun UK's publication repulsive and damaging to the image and livelihood of our client. Khafi is a proud black female police officer who prides herself in her work and has dedicated her youthful years protecting and serving with her many skills which include the ability to speak at least five international languages. We demand an immediate retraction of the publication by The Sun UK and a public apology to our client Khafilat Kareem within the next 48 hours. Legal options are also being considered at this time. Thank you. Signed  Management A post shared by  Khafi Kareem (A Cup of Khafi) (@acupofkhafi) on Aug 12, 2019 at 9:03pm PDT Source