 By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Int’l Society for Civil Liberties & Rule of Law, Intersociety, has said that the assault on Senator Ike Ekweremadu stands condemnable however, insisted that it is being blown out of proportion with the aim of giving it ethnic connotation for further stigmatization, criminalization, demonization and terrorization of the Igbo People including portraying them as a ‘rogue ethnic nationality in Nigeria’. The group also expressed shock over the statement credited to the President of Ohanaeze, Chief Nnia Nwodo, which merely relied on the recent questionable public parade and disclosure by the Enugu State Police Commissioner, Mr. Suleiman Balarabe, of the alleged killers of the two Enugu based Priests of the Catholic Church as well as abductors of the Traditional Ruler of Obom-Agbogwugwu in Awgu Local Government Area of the State. Intersociety expressed this view in a
statement issued Monday, August 2019 and signed by Lawyers Obianuju Joy
Igboeli, Head of Civil Liberties & Rule of Law, Evangeline Chidinma
Udegbunam, Head of Campaign & Publicity Dept and Emeka Umeagbalasi, Board
Chair. The statement reads in full: ‘The identities and confessional statements of the alleged
abductors and killers of the two Enugu based Priests of the Catholic Church as
well as the abduction of the Traditional Ruler of Obom-Agbaogwugwu, HRH Sunday Orji
and his wife, among other violent crimes ravaging the State in recent months
are circumstantially fallacious and remain questionable. It is also deeply sad
and disturbing that the recent assault on Senator Ike Ekweremadu in
Germany, as condemnable as it is, is now taking ethno-political dimension and
blown out of media proportion; all aimed at further stigmatization,
criminalization, demonization and terrorization of the Igbo People including
portraying them as a ‘rogue ethnic nationality in Nigeria’. Oha-Na-Eze’s Unsound Position On Killings & Abductions In Enugu & Igbo Land: The recent public statement credited to respected President of Oha-Na-Eze Igbo, Elder Nnia Nwodo, a senior lawyer, blaming Igbo youths for cashing in on ‘Fulani Herdsmen rampage in Igbo Land’ to abduct for ransom, rob and kill their fellow Igbo citizens especially the Priests of the Catholic Church, etc; is not only legally and circumstantially unsound but also capable of emboldening the real perpetrators and escalating the referenced violent crimes which are systematically organized and targeted; with ethno-religious and economic coloration. Intersociety is alarmed and shocked
by such generalized and ‘industrial scale’ transfer of criminal
responsibilities. It may be socially disastrous if such magisterial assertion
lacking in empiricism is not formidably refuted.
Our respect for the age and person of Barr Nnia Nwodo remains intact, but we
respectably disagree with his position on this subject matter. This is more so
when the respected Oha-Na-Eze chief merely relied on the recent questionable
public parade and disclosure by the Enugu State Police Commissioner, Mr.
Suleiman Balarabe, of the alleged killers of the two Enugu based Priests of the
Catholic Church as well as abductors of the Traditional Ruler of
Obom-Agbogwugwu in Awgu Local Government Area of the State. To establish the veracity of CP Suileman Balarabe’s claims,
such must be independently and expertly verified
including hearing from the suspects, their lawyers and families including
wives. The Enugu CP, an officer of
Fulani-Hausa Muslim extraction, had on Friday, 17th August
2019, paraded ‘two suspected killers of Rev Father Paul Offu and 30 other
suspects’ accused of being responsible for killing in March, of Rev Father
Clement Ugwu as well as abduction of the Traditional Ruler of Obom-Agbaogwugwu,
HRH, Sunday Orji and his wife; among other victims of violent crimes ravaging
Enugu State in recent months or times. Rev Father Clement Ugwu was abducted and
killed on 14th March 2019. On his part, Rev Father Paul Offu
was abducted and killed on 1st August 2019. As if that was not enough,
another Catholic Rev Father, Father Chimezie Ani of the same Enugu Catholic
Church or Diocese had few days ago, raised the alarm on how he narrowly
escaped being abducted by suspected Jihadist Fulani Herdsmen; usually referred
by police authorities and censored media as “unknown gunmen”. The Traditional
Ruler of Obom-Agbaogwugwu, HRH, Sunday Orji and his wife were abducted on 3rd August
2019. Also a former Commissioner for Information in Abia State, Barr Chikamnayo
Eze had his car riddled with bullets by suspected Jihadist Fulani Herdsmen on 4th August
2019. He narrowly escaped being abducted on the said date along Isuochi-Enugu
Road, near UNTH in Awgu Local Government Area of Enugu State. Jihadist Herdsmen Colored Patterns &
Trends Of Killings & Abductions In Enugu & Igbo Land: in
all the cases of recent abductions and killings particularly the abduction and
killing of the Priests of the Catholic Church in Enugu State, their patterns
and trends are indigenously strange and inter-religiously colored. While
perpetrators of ‘indigenous (i.e. Igbonized abductions and killings tailored in
non state actor criminal enrichment) abductions and targeted killings’ are
urban city based with minutest or no attention on members of the clergy as
their main targets, the patterns and trends involving the cited cases in Enugu
are ‘bush based’ (i.e. attributes of Fulani Daji jihadists/criminals) with
members of the mainstream faith entities (i.e. Priests of the Catholic Church)
as their targets. In other words, they are ‘religo-economic’ in nature. Evidentially, the abduction
and killing of Fathers Ugwu and Offu; the abduction of HRH, Sunday Orji, his
wife and former Abia Commissioner, Barr Eze Chikamnayo and attempted abduction
of Rev Father Azubuike Ani were majorly, if not all carried out in isolated
areas or forest/bush sides in the bushy parts of Enugu State; violently and
criminally accessed by members of the Jihadist Fulani Daji population,
forcefully populated in different forests, bushes and farmlands in Igbo Land
using public funds of the Government of Nigeria and its security forces. Transfer Of Criminal Responsibilities &
Unreliability Of Confessional Statements: The Oha-Na-Eze chief’s
position is further dealt a heavy blow by failed police investigative
intelligence and heavy reliance on the use of transfer of criminal
responsibilities in Nigeria. For purposes of ethno-religious and political
undertones as well as criminal enrichment, most of the suspects being publicly
paraded by the Police;  accused of involvement in domestic violent
crimes; usually end up being falsely accused, wrongly arraigned and prosecuted.
In some cases, they end up being convicted and jailed for crimes they never
committed. In other cases, they stand in for the real perpetrators and get
punished in their stead. Yet in other cases, charges preferred against them by
the State collapse at trial for want of concrete trial evidence. In the instant case,
therefore, it is our strong suspicion that by the circumstances and
confessional statements as publicly presented by the Enugu CP, the suspects
paraded and their confessional statements which seemed to have enticed the
person of the respected Oha-Na-Eze chief, Barr Nnia Nwodo, are circumstantially
fallacious and questionable. On the other hand, by the circumstances including
identities of the perpetrators and their confessional statements as they ought
to be, the real perpetrators are likely to remain on the prowl or uncaught. This is more so when the same
Commissioner of Police has never publicly admitted the atrocities of the
Jihadist Fulani Herdsmen in Enugu State. He is also one of the senior police
officers in Nigeria that have continuously labeled culpable Fulani
jihadists/domestic crimes’ perpetrators as “unknown gunmen” or “armed robbers”
or “kidnappers”; even when available circumstantial evidences clearly indicate
the contrary. From independent information available to us so far, the
suspects’ confessional statements are riddled with inconsistencies.
Specifically, the identities of the suspected killers of the two Rev Fathers and
abduction of the Traditional Ruler, etc, also need to be professionally
revisited or re-examined. The Condemnable Assault On Senator
Ekweremadu Is Ethno-Politicized: The assault on Senator Ike
Ekweremadu, though condemned in strongest terms, is scornfully
ethno-politicized. Intersociety has never taken sides and will
never take sides with violence and its perpetrators, be they state actors or
non-state actors in Nigeria or beyond its borders. Jungle justice of any form
is roundly condemned. However, the reasons for such
assault by members of the Igbo Community in Germany are grounded and solidly
justifiable, yet the response approach is very condemnable. It must be pointed
out too that the degree of anger shown in the incident is a criminal misdemeanor
(i.e. common assault) and not a felony. On conviction, it attracts only one to
three years sentence. This is just to put the records straight and not to
justify the assault on the first class Igbo Senator. The explanation is also to
diminish the rapacious criminalization and escalation of same in the country’s
deeply divided and ethnicized mainstream media.  It must be pointed
out further that elements of wounding or assault occasioning bodily harm or
aggravated assault or assassination attempt or attempted murder are all ruled
out in the referenced assault. Reasons For The Assault Justifiable But
Response Approach Wrong:  It is wrong for IPOB to say that
Igbo Govs and other key Igbo political players proscribed the group as they
lack such national codified powers and laws to do so. But it is likely more
correct to accuse them of conspiracy in the vindictive proscription. That is to
say that the reactions trailing the assault on Senator Ike Ekweremadu are
welcome, yet, we are deeply worried over the silence or absence of such
widespread reactions such as in the wake of well coordinated atrocities against
the Igbo Nation and her People. For instance, the media and
key Igbo political actors, except few, had become silence and speechless when
over 480 unarmed, defenseless and nonviolent citizens of the old Eastern
Nigeria were massacred between August 2015 and Sept 2017. The same goes with
rapacious militarization of Igbo Land and domination by 95% of all military,
security and policing establishments in the Region and others by senior
security officers of Northern Muslim background as well as unchecked official
highway and roadway robberies on Eastern Roads. Such silence is further
maintained in the ongoing ‘Fulanization and Islmaization’ of Igbo Land including
her forests, bushes and farmlands. In as much as we welcome the wide reactions
condemning the assault on Senator Ike Ekweremadu, but such reactions are
acutely selective and cowardice; disappearing when they are needed most. The Assault On Senator Ekweremadu Must Be
Stopped From Being Ethno-Politicized: It is a fact that the Igbo
People had lived and still live in Nigeria with entrenched cultural violence
against them; whereby only negative stories concerning the Nationality are
given premium attentions or spaces in the country’s Southwest controlled
mainstream media while positive stories about the Nationality and those
concerning ‘medium’ and ‘industrial scale’ crimes against them are brutally
relegated. For instance,Intersociety had severally encountered such
particularly during its researches and publications over the military massacre
of hundreds of unarmed and defenseless citizens as well as the militarization
of the Southeast Roads and associated official highway and roadway robberies by
soldiers and personnel of the Nigeria Police and the Navy. A clear case in point
(ethno-politicization of assault on Senator Ekweremadu) was the latest report
of Premium Times on Mr. Kanu’s broadcast following the assault. The named media
outfit, went far in the ethno-politicization under complaint, by describing the
international radio station (Radio Biafra Int’l) properly licensed by the UK
Government as “rogue radio station”. Despite being professionally aware of what
would have befallen Mr. Kanu and members of his royal family if they had not
escaped from the obvious military massacre and assassination mission to their
Afara-Ukwu Royal Palace on 13th and 14th Sept
2017; forcing them to flee the country alive; the respected Southwest media
outfit went further to describe Mr. Kanu as “fugitive who jumped bail and
escaped the country where he was standing trial for treason”. Such ‘tribally hateful media
reports’ by a supposedly civilized and democracy and human rights friendly
media outfit also has the capacity of emboldening the murderous Nigerian Army
and others into launching another round of massacre operations in Eastern
Nigeria solely targeting hundreds of defenseless Igbo population using
criminalization, stigmatization, demonization and terrorization as well as
prosecutorial vindictiveness. This, if allowed, could further lead to death of
hundreds and maiming of others, possibly in double, as well as further
disruption of economic or commercial activities in Eastern Nigeria. Terror Tag On IPOB Is Mala Prohibita Only
Within The Borders Of Nigeria: The authorities of the
Premium Times and others must also be clearly informed that the terror
tag on IPOB is only mala prohibita within the
boundaries of Nigeria particularly as far as the Buhari-Osinbajo Government
still exists. Beyond the borders of the country, the terror tag is null and
void and of no effect whatsoever; as it is neither mala
prohibita nor mala inse beyond the borders
of the country. In other words, it is a clear case of ajungle-country
where a terrorist is defined by yearning and voice-coughing! Nigerian
media of whatever divide must refrain from glorifying such illegalities.