Abuja (Sundiata Post) – YIAGA-Africa, a Civil Society Organisation (CSO) that observed the 2019 presidential election said that the result as announced by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) was consistent with its parallel vote tabulation results estimates The Chairman of the Board of YIAGA-Africa, Dr Hussaini Abdu
made this known while presenting the organisation’s report on the election on
Friday in Abuja. “For the 2019 presidential elections, the official results announced by INEC were consistent with YIAGA AFRICA’s Parallel Vote Tabulation results estimates. “In other words, the results reflect the votes cast at the polling units. “Similarly, the INEC
official turnout rate and rejected ballots figure were consistent with YIAGA
AFRICA estimated to turn out rate and rejected ballots based on reports from
1,491 98.4 per cent of sampled polling units,” he said. Abdu, however, said
that YIAGA AFRICA’s findings revealed certain lapses and reports of malfeasance
which impacted on the quality of the process in some polling units and states. He said that the
report also revealed possible incidents of vote suppression as reflected in the
percentage of cancelled ballots in some states such as Rivers, Nasarawa, Akwa
Ibom, Cross River, Plateau, Kogi, Benue and Kaduna State. He said that
Nigeria’s 20 years democracy was tested with the conduct of the 2019 general
elections. Abdu said that the elections presented an opportunity for
Nigeria to consolidate on the gains of the 2015 elections and deepen its
democratic transition. According to him, although INEC introduces reforms to
deepen electoral integrity and citizen’s participation, the elections are
characterised by many of the same shortcomings that have marred previous
national elections in Nigeria. The chairman said that as in past elections, INEC’s
logistical challenges and misconduct by political parties undermined the
integrity of the elections. He also said that the inability of some citizens to
vote undermined public confidence in the electoral process. Abdu said that INEC
overestimated its own capabilities and underrated the challenges with the
management of logistics. “This was worsened
by undue interference with the electoral commission functions by state and
non-state actors as well as the release of election funds six weeks to the
presidential elections. “This is in spite of its secured funding from the
Consolidated Revenue Fund. “The assault on
basic rights and freedoms by state institutions especially security agencies
coupled with the failure to conclude amendments to the electoral legal
framework indicated a lack of commitment to electoral reform and electoral
integrity,” he said. Abdu said that the report contained evidence which made it
clear that a lot was less than desired and that the overall outcome was not
necessarily vindication of the process. He observed that Nigeria missed an
opportunity to improve the quality of its elections as compared to the 2015
national elections. “The 2019 elections
were not the elections Nigerians wanted, they were not the elections Nigerians
expected and most importantly, they were not the elections Nigerians deserved. “Nigeria needs a national conversation on a new electoral
design or framework that responds to prevailing socio-political and economic
realities.
 “INEC must
improve its capacity to deliver credible elections and political parties must
play according to the rules as failure to do so could imperil Nigeria’s
democracy,” he said.