The Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN),
Cross River Section, said Monday that 30 years after the death of football legend
Samuel Okwaraji, the nation still regretted it.Andinam,
who revealed the revelation in an interview with NAN (Nigerian news agency) in
Calabar, said Okwaraji had died for his homeland. He called for better medical care for the nation’s
athletes and added that medical teams and team leaders should be active to
avoid placing players with a medical challenge.According to him, Nigerians will
not have suffered such a monumental loss that they will still remember whether
Okwaraji had the proper medical certificates to play the game in which he had
collapsed. He felt that the right people should be placed in
the sports administration of the country and added that families of recent
sports heroes were not treated fairly. This, he said, should be
corrected.”Okwaraji has shown a selfless service and sacrifice that many
of our athletes continue to exist, but it is necessary to encourage them. “Nigeria has been abused on all fronts, but
every time it’s a football game, every aspect is together and when we lose, the
disappointment grows.”President Mohamadu Buhari must ensure that square
anchors are placed in square holes when the Minister of Sports is handed over
to an interested person who contributes to the development of sport in the
country,” he said. Similarly, Jude Okoro, senior correspondent for the
Sun newspapers in Calabar, said that Nigeria has a system in which many people
who have served with merit the nation were not recognized.Okoro said the
country had learned nothing from the death of Okwaraji and many other fallen
heroes in trying to reform the sports sector and make it more productive. He said Nigerian athletes no longer had the spirit
of selflessness and sacrifice because they knew that if anything happened to
them in active service, nothing would be done for their family.”The story
has not changed after 30 years; We saw how Stephen Keshi died and Samson
Siasia’s mother was kidnapped and so far nobody has talked about it. “Things like these have made our athletes go
beyond the sports market.”They simply say that if you need us, you pay,
but if you do not need us, let’s play for other nations,” he said.He added
that a change of attitude in the country was needed and that Nigerian leaders
had to absorb the culture of a reward system for those who had served the
country diligently. NAN reports that Samuel Okwaraji was a Nigerian
footballer and a doctoral student in law from the University of Rome before his
death.Born on May 19, 1964, Okwaraji collapsed in a World Cup qualifying match
between Nigeria and Angola in Lagos on August 12, 1989, and died in hospital. Similarly, the football fans that use https://sport.netbet.ng/
recalled on Monday that the late Nigerian midfielder Samuel Okwaraji. Fans who
spoke with the Nigeria News Agency (NAN) in Abakaliki said that Okwaraji’s
memory had collapsed. during the meeting, he would remain in their minds
because of the rare qualities he has shown during his life. A football historian, Julius Ijeaku, recalled that
he was inside the crowded stadium that day, when several football fans died on
the terraces, following possible suffocation.”No one noticed the fall of
Okwaraji until Samson Siasia saw him panting and foaming in his mouth, which
then triggered the alarm. “The stadium doctors tried to resuscitate him
before taking him to the hospital and before the end of the match, the news was
announced that he had died,” he said.Ikechukwu Itumo, director of Ebonyi United
FC’s Abakaliki team, said Okwaraji still holds the record for Nigeria’s most
patriotic player, even at death. “Not only was he famous for offsetting his
airfare at Super Eagles games and refusing to collect allowances, but he also
told his teammates with great humility, despite his doctorate in law. “His
life is still a good example for today’s football players because the fate of
the Super Eagles could have been better if the players imitated their sense of
patriotism,” he said. John Ibegwam, a film producer, said that despite
Okwaraji’s sense of patriotism, he was an ingenious midfielder and a great
source of motivation for young people.”It was a classic midfielder whose
sublime goal against Cameroon in the AFCON group stage of 1988 ranks among the
best scored in the competition’s history. “Okwaraji’s burial keeps the history of the
most crowded ceremony in the community so far because it is obvious that the
federal government and the relevant football administrators have forgotten
it.” “It will be gratifying if such promises are meant to serve as
Nigeria’s eternal gratitude for Okwaraji’s selfless service during his
life,” he said. They recalled that Samuel
Okwaraji was celebrated by Google Doodle on May 19 by Google
for his posthumous birthday.”It also motivated several young people,
especially soccer players, telling them that football could be associated with
academics, which had a positive impact on many lives,” he said.Ms. Bridget
Obi, a merchant and football fan from the hometown of Okwaraji, Umudioka in
Orlu, Imo, urged the federal government to keep all the promises made to the
family of the deceased at his funeral.