By Edeki Igafe Warri (Delta) – The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), Warri Zonal Office, says it has sanctioned two petrol stations and two gas plants in Delta over alleged sharp practices. The affected stations are: Akpos Petroleum Limited, G-Palash Nigeria Limited and Onejire Gas Plant all located in Ughelli as well as Somil Energy and Gas Ltd. Mrs Gladys Idahosa, DPR Assistant Director, Operations, led a team of the regulatory agency on the routine surveillance on behalf of the Warri zonal Operations Controller, Mr Antai Asuquo. Idahosa, briefing newsmen shortly after the exercise, said the stations were sealed over offences bordering on under-dispensing, operating without valid licences, expired fire extinguishers and uninstalled gas leakage detectors. She said that the agency would continue to intensify awareness through routinesurveillance to curb anomalies in the downstream sector. “In some of the gas plants we visited, we observed that some do not install gas leakage detectors, nor do they recharged their fire extinguishers. “However, some are up to date; they operate in a friendly environment while only one gas plant sealed was for safety reasons. “A lot of the gas plants and filling stations are complying with the DPR rules that is why we could only sealed very few ones,” she said. Idahosa said that the team’s visit to retail outlets regularly was to take measurements of quantity of fuel being dispensed. According to her, anyone that goes above the accepted “deviation range” were sanctioned. “We call the marketer to get a technician to fix it and we go and verify that the machine is dispensing accurately before we unsealed such station,” she said. The assistant director operations urged the consumers to always notify DPR whenever they noticed a shortfall in the petrol they bought from the filling stations. She also appealed to the marketers to cooperate with the regulatory agency and abide by its rules and regulations. “We are not witch-hunters; the marketers should cooperate with us by complying with our rules so that we can work as a team. “Our intention is to ensure that they work safely and in a safe environment,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalled that the regulatory agency had in July sealed 11 petrol stations and two gas plants in two separate operations. However, a manager at Akpos Petroleum Limited, who pleaded anonymity, promised to call a technician to rectify the problem as soon as possible. The manager said that the station’s pump measured 10.92, while another measured 10.72 as against the maximum measurement of 10.30.(NAN)