Twenty-one housemates, for a period of 99 days, will struggle to emerge as winner of the N60m grand prize.  Ex-Big Brother Naija, BBNaija, housemate, Tokunbo Idowu, popularly known as Tboss, has revealed who should be the winner of ‘Pepper Dem’ edition of the reality TV show. Tboss, who was also a runner up two years ago, on Sunday, through her Instagram page, suggested that a female should emerge winner of the 2019 edition. She disclosed this shortly after Big Brother Naija housemate, Jeff, was evicted from the “Pepper dem” edition on Sunday. Tboss wrote: “I thoroughly enjoyed tonight’s eviction show. Although some things & people are really beginning to p*** me off but I won’t talk- Not yet tho.“Ps: Whilst everyone deserves to win as long as they made it into the house, however, I would lurvvv for a Female to win the Prize money this time around.“Dear boys- y’all gonna have to leave this one for us. Pls, people let’s help make that happen-just because it’s called Big Brother that don’t mean that only Boys should win.“I said what I said-If e pain you-Abeg come & do my laundry you would be fine by the time you’re done.” It was reported that four housemates: Tacha, Jeff, Omashola and Mike, were nominated for eviction this week Twenty-one housemates, for a period of 99 days, will struggle to emerge as winner of the N60m grand prize. Wife to Big Brother Naija Housemate, Mike has broken silence on her husband's decision to feature in this year's reality show despite being married. Mike on Sunday had told the housemates that he is married. However, one of the housemates, Ella seems to be getting closer to him. His wife… July 3, 2019 In "Entertainment" By Teddy Nwanunobi Abuja (Sundiata Post) — With less than one week for the curtains to be drawn on the Big Brother Naija (#BBNaija) reality show, facts have emerged that the sum of N330,000,000 was raked in by the organisers of the the TV reality show that has kept millions of… April 3, 2017 In "Entertainment" The Big Brother Naija 2018 season tagged ‘Double Wahala, is already living up to its name. It kicked off from housemate Miracle’s marriage controversy to his ‘romantic’ kiss with Nina during shower. Also, recent development in a post by Big Brother 2018 social media page had Bitto summoned to diary… January 30, 2018 In "Entertainment"