By Adaeze Iroha Lagos   –      A 42-year-old lotto agent, Augustus Adeomo, who allegedly assaulted his sister-in-law over a stray cat, was on Monday brought  before a Yaba Chief Magistrates’ Court in Lagos State. Adeomo, who resides in Makoko area of the state. is facing a count charge of assault, to which he pleaded not guilty. According to the Prosecutor, ASP Thomas Nurudeen,  Adeomo committed the offence at 6.00p.m on July 23, at No. 21, Erejuwa St. Makoko, Lagos. Nurudeen alleged that the defendant assaulted his step-brother’s wife; Mrs Felishike Bankole, during an argument over a stray cat. “My lord, Adeomo slapped the complainant on  the face and also tore her wrapper, rendering her naked in public. “He also used a stone to injure his step-brother on the right hand when he confronted him about the assault on his wife. “Even when the police came to arrest him, he threw stones at them,” Nurudeen said. The Chief Magistrate, Mrs K.B. Ayeye, admitted the defendant to bail in the sum of N50,000 with two sureties in like sum. Ayeye said that the sureties should be above 40 years and gainfully employed. She added  that the sureties must show evidence of three years’ tax payment to the Lagos State Government. The chief magistrate adjourned the case until Sept. 24 for mention. The alleged offence contravenes Section 173 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2015. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Section 174 stipulates three years’ jail term for  assault. Lagos -  A septuagenarian, Adebowale Dauda, who allegedly defiled an 11-year-old girl, was on Wednesday hauled up before an Ikeja Magistrates’ Court. The accused, 78, whose address is unknown, is facing a three-count charge of defilement, sexual assault and breach of peace. The prosecutor, Sgt. Jimah Iseghede told the court… August 12, 2015 In "News" A 37-year-old father, Okoro Odia, was Wednesday dragged before an Ogudu Magistrates’ Court sitting in Lagos State for putting ground pepper on his 10-year-old daughter’s private part. The police prosecutor, Ihiehie Lucky, told the court that the accused committed the alleged offence sometime in June and again in August. Ihiehie… August 10, 2016 In "Metro" Lagos- An Ogudu Magistrates’ Court, Lagos, on Wednesday remanded a 37-year-old father, Okoro Odia, in prison custody for putting grinded pepper on his 10-year-old daughter’s private part. Okoro is standing trial on a three-count of indecent treatment, attempt to commit murder and assault. Prosecutor Ihiehie Lucky told the court that… August 10, 2016 In "Metro"