Abuja (Precise Post) – The Middle Belt Forum, MBF, has stated that the killing of three policemen and a civilian by soldiers has vindicated former Minister of Defence, General Theophilus Danjuma (retd). MBF said
Danujma had long raised alarm that the military had been compromised in Taraba
State. Soldiers had killed police operatives who arrested one Alhaji Hamisu Bala Wadume indicted in a series of high-profile kidnap incidents in the State. The incident
occurred along Ibi–Wukari road in Taraba and the suspected kidnapper is still
nowhere to be found. President of
MBF, Dr. Bitrus Porgu, in a statement on Thursday, said although Danjuma was
then attacked over his position, events in recent time have confirmed his
fears. The statement
read: “While we are at a loss as to why these recruited groups have continued
to smear the name of General Danjuma, we are also not unaware of the fact that
ever since the former Defence Minister called on Nigerians to resist the
invasion of the Middle Belt and Southern communities from terrorist herdsmen
that are in collusion with the military. “It became
obvious that General Danjuma had stirred the hornet’s nest when he told the
world that the military was colluding with rampaging herdsmen to unleash terror
on Nigerian communities. “The recent
killing of police operatives on a covert assignment to Taraba State, who
arrested and handcuffed a notorious multi-millionaire kidnapper, Alhaji Hamisu
Bala Wadume, has justified Danjuma’s allegations that the military is, indeed,
colluding with terrorist elements to invade communities.” The forum
further condemned those accusing Danjuma of culpability in the Tiv/Jukun
crisis. “Another
accusation against Gen Danjuma and Governor Ishaku is that in the face of the
present conflict, the duo have continued to maintain a conspiracy of silence.
Again, how laughable this is? “Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue and Governor Ishaku, with their deputies, have at different times convened peace-building meetings to reconcile the two warring communities, with bright prospects on the horizon for restoration of normalcy”, it added. (Daily Post).