By Nathan Nwakamma Yenagoa   –    Gov. Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa has said that his administration spends N500 million monthly to service political office holders numbering 1,500. Dickson revealed this during a radio broadcast on Sunday night monitored by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Yenagoa. He said that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) administration had invested the ‘political capital’ amounting to N6 bn annually to sustain its loyalists appointed to serve in his administration. He said that the huge investment was responsible for the large number of aspirants jostling for the PDP ticket in the party primaries scheduled for Sept 2, ahead the Nov.  16 governorship elections in the state. According to Dickson, 21 governorship aspirants collected and returned the party’s expression of interest and nomination forms at N21 million each. He described the development as a welcome one for the party. “The party leadership decided to make the contest open and all embracing and as a consensus builder I believe that every aspiration is legitimate, it is a right that they have to test their popularity at the primaries. “The large number of aspirants is an indication that the party is a platform of choice for any politician to actualize his governorship ambition and looking at the rival party, they don’t have up to two aspirants. “Nothing is happening there, the PDP is taking the shine and it is all happening because of the political capital we invested in building the party, if I lost my re-election in 2015, the party would have been dead by now in Bayelsa. “The party that I lead in Bayelsa defeated the APC when it was still very popular with all the federal might and this time I will be leading the party but not as a candidate but as an outgoing governor. “Although I won’t participate as a candidate, I am a stakeholder in the race, the biggest stakeholder, and consultations are ongoing amongst the stakeholders towards the emergence of the PDP flag bearer in the governorship elections,” Dickson said. On the nomination of Chief Timipre Sylva as Minister, Dickson said that he was elated at the development and extended a hand of friendship by congratulating Sylva. Dickson said that the rift between them which had lasted for about ten years had ended and wished that the bond of friendship which existed be rekindled. “We used to be very close friends but we chose different paths in politics, the former Governor has worked hard for his party and adjudged loyal and nominated as a Minister, I love loyalty and rejoice with him. “Soon I shall join the league of ex-governors, so out of political maturity I congratulated him and shortly afterwards he reacted positively and it was very gracious of him. “I wish him well and hope that he will be a substantive Minister in a Grade A ministry, of course the choice lies at the discretion of the President, we don’t have the choice in assignment of portfolios,” Dickson said. YENAGOA (Sundiata Post) - Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State recorded a major boost to his re-election bid on Friday when former governorship aspirant, Mr. Reuben Okoya and many others from various communities in the Bayelsa Central Senatorial District endorsed him for the December 5 election in the state. From one community to the… November 20, 2015 In "Politics" By Christian Ogbonna Yenagoa -  Gov. Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa has expressed his readiness to consolidate on the developmental plans of the state. He said this at an evening event on Wednesday in Yenagoa, organised by Bayelsa Government to thank the people for winning the Dec. 5, 2015 Governorship election.… November 17, 2016 In "News" Yenagoa - Gov. Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa has urged councillors in the 105 wards in the state to embark on mobilisation of the people for the Dec. 5 governorship poll in the state. Dickson, who made the call at a meeting with the serving and former councillors in the state… November 5, 2015 In "Politics"