•Hamisu Wadume By Adelani Adepegba and Olaleye Aluko Two policemen who allegedly colluded with kidnap kingpin, Hamisu Bala, popularly known as Wadume, will soon be dismissed from the service following their indictment for colluding with the crime boss in Taraba State, Punch reports. Top police sources told our correspondent on Monday that Ibi police division crime officer, Assistant Superintendent of Police, Aondonna Iorbee, and the station officer, Inspector Aliyu, who had been in custody for about two weeks, would be dismissed for allegedly “colluded with criminals.” One of our correspondents had earlier reported how the two officers were found to have collaborated with Wadume in his criminal enterprise. The crime officer was found to have made over 200 calls to Wadume while the station officer allegedly destroyed evidence showing that the Intelligence Response Team operatives documented the operation to arrest the kidnap kingpin at the station. A source said, “The two officers are still in custody and investigation has shown that they were working hand in-glove with the kidnap kingpin, Wadume. It is unfortunate, but they would lose their entitlements and also end up in jail.” Meanwhile, a member of the IRT team which came under attack from soldiers attached to  93 battalion, Takum, Taraba State, on August 6, 2019, said attackers stole their phones and other personal effects. The officer who spoke on condition of anonymity, described his experience as terrifying, noting that he narrowly escaped being killed during the assault which claimed three policemen and two civilians. He said, “I managed to crawl out of the overturned vehicle and hid in a bush nearby. After the incident, we found that the soldiers had taken away our phones and wallets containing money and other personal effects.” Meanwhile, the Joint Investigative Panel set up by the Defence Headquarters, Abuja, to investigate the incident failed to submit its report to the office of the Chief of the Defence Staff, Gen Abayomi Olonisakin, on Monday.  By Fanen Ihyongo Security operatives and the panel probing the killing of policemen by soldiers in Taraba State have seized some property of suspected kidnap kingpin Hamisu Bala alias Wadume. Wadume, whose arrest by Police anti-kidnapping squad, sparked a row that led to the killing on August 6, of three… August 14, 2019 In "Security" By Precious Igbonwelundu, Blessing Olaifa, Abuja and Kolade Adeyemi, Kano RE-ARRESTED kidnap suspect Hamisu Bala (alias Wadume) confessed that he sent huge amount of money to an Army captain, it was learnt on Wednesday. The officer allegedly ordered soldiers to attack undercover Intelligence Response Team (IRT) operatives who went to… August 22, 2019 In "Security" •Hamisu Wadume ABUJA - has been revealed that the army captain who ordered the killing of three IRT officers had 191 phone chats with the notorious kidnapper they freed.  The Nigerian Army Captain (name withheld) who allegedly ordered soldiers on security check-point along the Ibi-Jalingo Expressway in Taraba State, to… August 14, 2019 In "Top Stories"