Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Coca-Cola has launched a ‘love is love’ campaign in Hungary that include images of same-sex couples kissing and holding bottles of Coke. The new ad has sparked outrage among Hungarian politicians and conservative activists but the company has no plans to backpedal. The company faces backlash from Hungarian politicians and conservative activists. But Coca-Cola has no plans to backtrack. According to reports, politicians from Hungary’s ruling Fidesz party and conservative media outlets have called for boycotting Coke (KO) products or banning the company’s “Love is Love” ad series. How the company maintains that “The Coca-Cola Company strives for diversity, inclusion and equality in our business, and we support these rights in society as well.” A company spokesperson said in a statement that “As a long-standing supporter of the LGBTQI community, we believe everyone has the right to love the person they choose. The campaign currently running in Hungary reflects these values.”   NEW YORK - The Coca-Cola Company said on Monday it will remove a controversial flavoring stabilizer from some of its drinks, following rival PepsiCo Inc's announcement earlier this year that it would drop the same ingredient from its drinks. The ingredient, brominated vegetable oil (BVO), is a chemical containing bromine,… May 7, 2014 In "Health" Coca-Cola HBC (Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company) is a bottling partner of The Coca-Cola Company. Coca-Cola HBC is headquartered in Zug, Switzerland and has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and secondary listing on the Athens Exchange. The Coca-Cola Company is the world's largest beverage company and operates in… September 25, 2017 In "Education" By Alex Chiejina LAGOS (Sundiata Post) - SABMiller Inc has partnered with Coca Cola and Gutsche Family Investment to set up Coca Cola Beverages Africa (CCBA), which will manufacture and sell 40 still and sparkling brands from more than 30 African bottling plants. The new company headquartered in South Africa… July 25, 2016 In "Business"