An Uber driver, Richmond Temple, found in possession of N12million church equipment belonging to The Redeemed Evangelical Mission (TREM), has appeared before an Igbosere Magistrates’ Court, Lagos. Temple, 33, was arraigned by the police on a four-count charge of conspiracy, breaking, entering and stealing. Prosecuting Sergeant Friday Mameh alleged that the defendant and accomplices, who are on the run, committed the offences at about 3am on August 9, 2019 at TREM (Restoration Parish) Chevron Drive in Eti-Osa Local Government Area, Lagos. “The defendant and others at large did break and enter The Redeemed Evangelical Mission (TREM). They did steal three amplifiers, three electronic keyboards, one laptop computer, one digital console and one CD printer, all valued at N5million. “At about 4am, same day, at Ikate Roundabout in Eti Osa LGA, the defendant was found in possession of suspected stolen items in his car, including: two Samsung Plasma TVs, one Wharefedric Pro MP 2800, one Yamaha keyboard, two Peak Monitors, MOSFET 2000 professional power amplifier, one saxophone, two base guitars, all valued at N7milion,” Mameh said. He said Temple could not give a satisfactory response to questions at the Ilasan Police Station. According to Mameh, the offences contravened Sections 287, 311 and 411 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. His counsel, O. Bridget, applied for his bail “in the most liberal terms.” Bridget told the court that the defendant was an upright, hardworking family man, who mistakenly picked up thieves in his vehicle. She said: “The defendant is an Uber driver, who, in the course of his duty, was hired by two men to move their goods. He didn’t know them from anywhere and didn’t know the equipment were stolen.” She added that the men fled when police stopped the vehicle, leaving the defendant to face the consequences.” In a bench ruling, Magistrate B. I. Bakare granted Temple N50, 000 bail with two sureties in the like sum, among other conditions. The case continues on September 19. Source: The Nation