By Ariwodola Idowu Ado Ekiti – Gov. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti on Thursday performed the swearing-in for the Alawe of Ilawe Ekiti, Oba Adebanji Alabi, as the new Chairman of the state’s Traditional Council inspite of the  court action instituted  by other members of the Council. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Alabi’s appointment is being challenged at a State High Court in Ado Ekiti  by 17 traditional rulers who are aggrieved over the appointment. NAN reports that Fayemi, who did not dwell on the suit while inaugurating Alabi, charged  the new chairman to “unite the traditional institution and eschew baseless rivalry.” He said the time had come for traditional rulers in the country to bring their influence  to bear to resolve the vicious security challenge across the country. While emphasising  the need to maintain security and peaceful co-existence in their domains  Fayemi said their cooperation would help in curbing anti-social activities by strengthening partnership with government. He said the re-constitution of the council was inevitable judging by the fact that traditional rulers play pivotal roles in the stability of every community and the nation in general. “I want to charge you to cooperate with this government and be at the forefront of the fight against anti social behaviour because what we need to promote development is peace “I want you to be protectors of your people as custodians of culture and tradition in your domains. ” Despite modernity, you remain the rallying point and you will ever remain relevant “I want to appreciate the immediate past council for putting in its best in piloting the affairs of the council. ” I have no doubt that the new council will collaborate with government for more development in our state “Don’t be used by fifth columnists that don’t understand that elections are over in Ekiti .Don’t also allow unnecessary communal clashes that could destabilise the state “Ekiti has been lucky since its creation and in this period of its history, I was appointed the Chairman of Governor’s forum despite that Ekiti is not the oldest state in Nigeria. ” Whatever we must have achieved or got in life is an act of God who knows the end from the beginning,” he said. Responding, Alabi promised to be fair to all the monarchs regardless of status, urging his colleagues to restrict themselves to giving advice to governors and not to criticise “since we are not running a labour union.” ” We can’t afford any form of antagonism and bickering as we are not in competition with the governor. “We are an advisory body in line with the law that established this council. We assure Mr Governor of our unalloyed loyalty to be able to move Ekiti forward,” he said. Alabi was appointed on Aug. 1 following the expiration of the tenure of the Oloye of Ote Oye Ekiti, Oba Oluwole Ademolaju, on July 31. (NAN)