By Egbo Grace, Abakaliki ABAKALIKI – The Ebonyi State police command has confirmed the death of a 29-year-old mother of four, Mrs Chinasa Odah, from Inikiri Effium, Ohaukwu local government area of Ebonyi State, who administered drug for abortion giving to her by his suspected boyfriend, one Mgbada. According to DSP Loveth Odah, who confirmed the death noted that the woman bled to death at Sudan hospital on Saturday, August 24, leaving behind living her four children. She said that the suspect would be arraigned after investigation as “the matter as still under investigation.” DSP Odah said: “The man has been arrested and investigation ongoing and the suspect will be arraigned after investigation. The woman, 29 years old has four children before going for extra martial affairs. “The law says hear say is not an evidence in the court but when the originator is dead, it could be administered in the court if the statement was made in the gathering of the family. “So, we have deposited the body in the mortuary. The man cannot be allowed to go because somebody is dead on this matter. The man will be charged for murder and the death declaration will be administered in the court for the presiding judge to decide. The court has the final say,” Odah said. It was gathered that the woman had been sneaking out to have an affair with his 25-years-old boyfriend identified as Mgbada on Monday, who allegedly impregnated her and administered the abortion substance on her, but unfortunately she died after bleeding profusely. A community source told Tribune Online that the woman started bleeding and her husband, Mr Michael Odah, who could not bear the pains of her wife, rushed the wife to Sudan hospital were doctors confirmed that she had taken a substance capable of damaging her womb, which led to her eventual death. The source said, she confessed that she was pregnant and her boyfriend gave her drugs to terminate the pregnancy, which caused the bleeding as she died immediately she made the statement. The development was said to have been reported to the police station in Effuim and the suspect arrested. “Chinasa was bleeding from her private part. When she was pressurised to talk, she opened up that one Monday Mgbada, a man of about 25 years old impregnated her and administered abortion drugs on her as soon as she made that statement, she gave up the ghost. It is very painful, I must tell you the truth because to take care of orphans is a difficult task,” the source said. (Nigerian Tribune)