By Olajide Idowu Osogbo   –     A Non Government Organisation (NGO), Suicide And Depression   Awareness Foundation (SADAF) on Monday, organised a sensitisation walk in Osogbo, Osun, on depression and suicide, as well as ways to reduce the menace in society. Ms Muhjeezah Ishola, the Convener of the sensitisation walk, told newsmen that it was aimed at bringing an end to the alarming rate of committing suicide and ways to rescue people from the state of depression. Ishola explained that suicide was mostly preceded by depression, describing depression as an a mental disorder that afflicted people worldwide, which interfered with concentration, motivation and many aspects of everyday functioning. “There are lots of causes of suicide of which severe depression is a key factor if not attended to properly. “Suicide most often occurs when stressors and health issues converge to create an experience of hopelessness and despair. “Though, depression is the most common condition associated with suicide, it can be diagnosed by a specialist on mental health. “Conditions like stress, breakup, anxiety, desperation on a particular goal, lack of faith in God and many more and substance problems, especially when unaddressed, increase risk of suicide.” she said. Ishola said SADAF and other supportive groups believed that they could make impact by sensitising Nigerians on the menace. She said that it would take collective efforts, especially by government, to get rid of depression and suicide. She called on government to look into the root causes of depression and suicide, and work on models that would prevent people from reaching the point of hopelessness and suicide. The SADAF leader in the state also advocated the creation of more mental health clinics and hospitals nationwide. She advised Nigerians to always be on the lookout for signs of depression in people around them and help them to get medical help before it became too late. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the walk, which started at 8:00am at Freedom Park in Osogbo, took participants through major streets and markets in the town. The participants also interacted with some people and commercial motorcyclists who approached the sensitisation team for counseling. By Ikenna Osuoha Abuja - An Abuja based Psychologist, Dr Ijeoma Nwafor, says compulsory healthcare for all is the only preventive measure against rising cases of suicide in Nigeria. Nwafor told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Tuesday that addressing social economic issues is also key to… July 2, 2019 In "Health" NEW YORK - In a new study, people age 65 and older who reported trouble sleeping were more likely to commit suicide over the next ten years than those who slept well. Doctors who treat patients with depression or a history of suicide attempts should consider sleep problems a further… August 15, 2014 In "Health" By Chiazo Ogbolu Lagos - Some mental health experts on Wednesday urged the public to stop stigmatising people living with mental health as it often affected treatment and caused more harm to such people. The experts made the appeal in Lagos at the Nigerian Academy of Science (NAS) Media Round… April 18, 2019 In "Health"