By Anita Eboigbe Abuja  –     Nigerian fashion designer, Mowalola Ogunlesi, has been selected to dress cartoon icon, Barbie for its 60th anniversary. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Vogue commissioned six young fashion designers, including Ogunlesi, to dress the character in their signature style. She got to dress Barbie in her signature style, best described as “free-spirited.” The style translates to Barbie’s latest look – a neon green tie-dye co-ord, which is a part of Ogunlesi’s S/S20 collection. Speaking on her designs and her Barbie to Vogue, she said,“Mine is a world where everyone is free in terms of what they wear, in terms of how they think, and my women aren’t threatened by anyone – they are taking back their power.” “She is a Mowalola superhero – strong, captivating and ready to have a really good time. I want to be wherever she’s going.” In 2017, Ogunlesi launched her eponymous brand and has since styled Solange for Dazed Magazine and Skepta for his hazy ‘Pure Water’ video. She also worked on Nike’s Naija World Cup kit launch and Grammy-winning rapper, Drake was spotted wearing a custom Mowalola jacket. Deola Sagoe has been a force in African fashion for the last 25 years. Now she is trying to make African designs globally competitive and grow a multi-billion-dollar industry. On the evening of 18 May 2014, I went to the Intercontinental Hotel, a brand –new, towering glass and steel structure… September 13, 2014 In "Business" By Josephine Obute Lagos  -    A top fashion promoter, Princess Ronke Ademiluyi, has told parents and school authorities to embrace `ankara’ as school uniforms, rather than patronizing foreign fabrics. Ademiluyi, who made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN on Wednesday in Lagos said that… July 19, 2017 In "Style" By Chijioke Okoronkwo Abuja - Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Tuesday at a dinner organised in commemoration of Nigeria’s 59th Independence Anniversary at the State House Banquet Hall, Abuja, thrilled the guests with visual descriptions of attributes that make Nigerians outstanding. Osinbajo, who spoke on a lighter note, said that… October 2, 2019 In "News"