Lagos – Security operatives have arrested three students of the Federal College of Education (Technical), Akoka, Lagos for raping a teenager. Three students of the Federal College of Education (Technical), Akoka, Lagos have been arrested and arraigned before an Ikeja magistrate court for gang raping a 15-year-old girl who was on her period on Saturday June 29, 2019.  The teenager was visiting the school when she was dragged into the Students Union Government treasurer’s office by one Ayo Segun who is still on the run. It was learnt that the FCET’s SUG treasurer, Mudi Phillip was present when the girl was raped in his office by Oluwabanwo Kolawole and Chibuzo Ezegbue who he was arrested with.  “Segun, Kolawole and Ezegbue took me inside Philip’s office at the SUG building and said they would protect me and use me as their queen if I agreed to have s-x with them. Philip was there pressing his phone when I started arguing with them, but when Segun realised that I was shouting, he ordered the rest of the guys out and told me that he would kill me if I refused to have s-x with him. I told him I was menstruating, but he never cared and he forcefully had s-x with me.“I thought it was over, but the others came in one after the other to have s-x with me. When I tried to stop them, they threatened me. Ezegbue had s-x with me but when it was Kolawole’s turn, he saw blood around my private parts and knew I was tired, so he told me to give him oral s-x, which I did. When it was Philip’s turn, I pleaded with him and he said he wasn’t there to have s-x with me, but said that I should lie to the others that he had s-x with me if they asked,” the girl said while recalling how the sad incident occurred.  The Lagos state Police spokesperson, Bala Elkana told newsmen that Phillip was released by the court while the two other suspects were remanded in Ikoyi prison. “We have arrested the suspects involved in the case of the 15-year-old girl, who was defiled by four boys at the FCE (T), Akoka. Two of the suspects, Ezegbue Chibuzo and Oluwabanwo Kolawole, have been charged and are currently remanded in prison custody” he said. Source