By Stanley Nwanosike ENUGU –  Nigeria’s Polio Ambassador, Sir Emeka Offor, has donated N8.52million to the Department of Clinical Pharmacy, University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), towards furnishing and up-grading of its Digital Anatomy Laboratory. Head of Communications of Enugu Electricity Distribution Company (EEDC), Mr. Emeka Ezeh, made this known in a statement made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Saturday in Enugu. Ezeh said that Offor, who is Chairman of EEDC, made the presentation of the cheque to the Dean, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Prof. Amaechi Atama, at the faculty building in UNN, through him (Head of Communications of EEDC) on Friday, Aug. 16. The EEDC’s spokesman noted that the Department of Clinical Pharmacy, in its effort to meet up with global best practices, approached Offor for assistance to enable it equip and furnish its Digital Anatomy Laboratory, and he honoured their request. Reacting, Head of Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Dr Maxwell Adibe, appreciated Offor for the gesture. He said that the Faculty had been going after public-spirited individuals for support as the government alone cannot cater for the needs of the institution. Adibe said that the Digital Anatomy Laboratory would be named after Offor, as a memorial, so that generations to come would know that the laboratory was actually equipped by him. “We resolved in our Faculty that anyone that comes to our aid, we shall name the project after the person and we are thrilled by this gesture,’’ he said. In his reaction, Dean, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Prof. Amaechi Atama, thanked Offor in ensuring that the project becomes a reality. Atama said: “Sir Emeka Offor has taken the lead, and we hope that others like him should follow suit’’. NAN recalls that Offor, who is also the Chairman of Chrome Group, is also a globally recognised philanthropist that had donated millions of dollars towards the eradication of Polio. Offor through Sir Emeka Offor Foundation (SEOF), a NGO, was involved in transforming lives over the years through various intervention programmes such as: Youth Empowerment Scheme; Widows Cooperative Scheme; Education Scholarship Scheme; Health Scheme Services and Infrastructure Development Scheme. (NAN) 