Abuja (Sundiata Post) –  A woman who says she was conceived by child rape wants to bring her father to justice by using her own DNA as evidence – branding herself a “walking crime scene”. The complainant, who was
adopted at the age of seven months in the 1970s, learnt from her adoption files
that she was conceived when her 13-year-old mother was raped by a 35-year-old
family friend. The woman, who wants to remain anonymous, said her birth is
proof of a child rape and wants a DNA test carried out to use as evidence
against her father. “I’d always thought that it was
so wrong that my birth father was never prosecuted,” the woman told the BBC’s Victoria Derbyshire programme. “It was then that I thought, I’ve got DNA evidence, because I am
DNA evidence. I’m a walking crime scene and it’s all written in the files.
Surely people are going to take me seriously.“ The
complainant is hoping to bring what is termed a “victimless prosecution” –
where no evidence is submitted by the victim of the alleged crime – because the
law does not recognise her as a victim and her mother does not want to be
involved in legal action. West
Midlands Police said they had closely coordinated with the Crown Prosecution
Service (CPS) over the allegation and it would not support a prosecution through
the courts. The
daughter said she discovered the context of her conception while studying her
own adoption records when she obtained them at the age of 18. Thousands of rape cases dropped
because ‘police traumatising victims’ “The
records said she’d gone to babysit at his house, and he raped her. It says in
seven different places in the files that it was rape,” she said. “It
states his name and address, that social services, police, health workers knew
– but nothing was done about it. It made me feel angry, devastated for my birth
mum. For me.” The complainant added: “This has nearly beaten
me down. Being adopted comes with so many difficulties, and the trauma of this
has affected every part of my life. But I will persevere because I know this is
so wrong and I want justice.” She
said her birth mother had been let down by the original police investigation
which took place back in the 1970s. No
rape complaint was made at the time and the woman’s mother has not wanted
to co-operate with an investigation since. The
complainant said: “Because of that crime, I am alive. My whole life’s been
dictated by it, but no-one will see me as a victim. I am living, breathing
proof of a child rapist and nobody is interested. How is that OK? “I
want the police to demand a DNA test. I want the police and social services to
apologise for their failures and to learn, and I want the definition of victim
to be reviewed.” She
confronted her father about the allegation but he did not confirm or deny
the claim, she added. Jess
Phillip, Labour MP for Birmingham Yardley, argued children conceived through
rape should “absolutely” be considered victims. She
told the BBC: “The sort of emotional effect that would have on a person, their
relationships going forward, on their lives, on how they feel about themselves,
it undoubtedly will have affected them. “I
thought we had won this argument, the idea you don’t have to be a direct victim
of abuse – we would never suggest in a domestic violence situation that a child
who had never suffered any violence themselves was not a victim of the crime
happening around them – to me it’s exactly the same test that is met.” Chief
Superintendent Pete Henrick, head of West Midlands Police’s public protection
unit, said the force did not underestimate the impact “no doubt suffered” by
the complainant. He
said the force had not received a rape claim in the 1970’s and the alleged
victim did not want to co-operate when her daughter approached her in 2014. “In
light of this, she asked whether she could be identified as a victim herself
and if the case could be progressed on those grounds,” a statement said. ”The
law does not recognise her as a victim in these circumstances. We liaised with
the CPS and were advised they would not support a prosecution. “Our
handling of the case was scrutinised by both our professional standards
department and the Independent Police Complaints Commission, at the time, and
both agreed the police action and conclusion were appropriate.“ A New Jersey court has ordered a man to pay child support for just one twin, after DNA tests showed that the second baby had been fathered by someone else. The extremely rare case arose when the woman, identified only as T.M, applied for public assistance and named her current… May 13, 2015 In "News" Police officers have discovered that an 11-year-old girl has given birth to a boy fathered by her 14-year-old brother in Spain.   The child gave birth at Virgen de la Arrixaca hospital in the city of Murcia in south eastern Spain on Friday after she was admitted with ‘stomach pains’.… February 13, 2018 In "Metro" An elderly American man married to his wife for 21 years has reportedly committed suicide after he found out that the child he had with his wife doesn't belong to him.. The revelation was made after a paternity test was conducted on the child. The story of the man was… June 8, 2019 In "Metro"