A 28-year-old man, Elijah Egbara, a native of Oshiegbe community in Ezza North Local Government Area of Ebonyi State was found dead on his bed, morning, after having s*x with his fiancée. The PUNCH gathered that the deceased and his fiancée went to bed after dinner the night before the incident, without any complaint of sickness or pain, by the former. A source close to the deceased and his fiancée, who spoke our correspondent on the condition of anonymity, said the fiancée of the deceased had raised an alarm which attracted neighbours in the vicinity. The source said, “After having their dinner, they slept together on the same bed only for her to wake up the following day, and she discovered that her husband-to-be had died. She raised the alarm and other neighbours ran out to meet her. “The man they said had never complained of anything, and even his wife-to-be said he was not sick. He had no pains in any part of his body. He is a native of Oshiegbe in Ezza North LGA of Ebonyi State.” Confirming the incident, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Loveth Odah, disclosed that the deceased’s fiancée was initially arrested by the police, but released on the requests of both her parents and that of the deceased to enable them to ascertain the cause of the death. Odah said autopsy was being conducted on the corpse, to further ascertain, not just the immediate, but the remote cause of the death. The Police spokesperson said, “One Oluchi Nwenu in company of one Joseph Ezega of Hatchery Road Abakaliki, by Nnodo Guest House, went to the Central Police Station Abakaliki and reported that around 9:00 p.m. of 2nd August, 2019, she went to bed together with her fiance, Elijah Egbara, (M), 28 years, naked. “When they reported the matter to the Police station and narrated what happened, a team of police detectives from CPS Abakaliki led by the DCO visited the scene, took photographs of the deceased and took him to the hospital. Getting to the hospital, the doctor on duty, unfortunately, confirmed him dead. The corpse has been deposited in the mortuary. “The girl was thereafter arrested because it was human life that we are talking about. An investigation is still on. As soon as investigation and autopsy are concluded, the doctor will tell us what happened and how the death came about. “Both parents of the deceased and the lady said there is no need keeping the lady in police custody. They said it is not helping matters. They said the lady should come home so that they will collectively find out the cause of the death. But the autopsy is on while the lady has been released to the family.”