By Sani Abdulrahman Kaduna   –      A Sharia Court ll sitting in Magajin Gari, Kaduna State, on Monday adjourned a divorce suit filed by an housewife, Amina Abdullahi, for one month to fulfill Islamic rights. Amina filed a divorce petition against her husband of 23 years. The Judge, Murtala Nasir, told the complainant that Islam provides that a marriage can only be terminated when the wife filed a case in the court within 10 days of husband’s disappearance. He said that if the 10 days lapsed and the husband refused to appear before the court after so many attempts, the court would give him a grace of one month to appear or terminate the marriage. Nasir adjourned the case to Sept. 5 for judgement. Earlier, the complainant, Amina, who resides within Kaduna metropolis, told the court that she had been married to her estranged husband, Abdullahi Yunusa, for 23 years with four children. Amina alleged that her estranged husband left her for four years without knowing his whereabouts. “He left us in a rented apartment; the rent expired and I had to go back to my parent’s house. I shouldered the responsibilities of my four children for all these years, I am praying to the court to terminate the marriage,” she pleaded. Brother to the complainant, Muhammad Hamisu of Numan Road, Tudun Wada, Kaduna, who was invited by the court, testified that all what Amina told the court was true. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that efforts were made several times to reach the defendant with court summons, but the efforts proved abortive. By Sani Abdulrahman Kaduna - A 42-year-old mechanic, Adamu Sulaiman of Unguan Shanu Rima road, on Monday, dragged his estranged wife before a Sharia Court l, sitting in Magajin Gari, Kaduna, seeking divorce confirmation. Sulaiman told the court that he proclaimed divorce twice to his wife and wants the court… June 10, 2019 In "Metro" By Aisha Gambo   Kaduna -  A Sharia Court in Magajin Gari, Kaduna, on Thursday ordered a divorce seeking housewife, Binta Sani, to pay N20, 000 to her estranged husband, Adamu Abdullahi, to free herself from their 19-year-old marriage. The Judge, Dahiru Lawal in his ruling said that since the… July 19, 2018 In "Metro" By Sani  Abdulrahman Kaduna - A fashion designer, Fatima Muhammad, 23, on Thursday dragged her ex-husband to a Sharia Court l siting in Magajin Gari, Kaduna, seeking divorce confirmation. Muhammad, who lives on Zaria road, Kaduna, told the court that her estranged husband divorced her four months ago with two… May 9, 2019 In "Metro"