After winning the Head of House task for this week in Big Brother Naija 2019: Pepper Dem, Seyi Awolowo a.k.a Sugar Daddy, ‘Sucre Papito’ has emerged the new head of house. He became the head of house after completing his task in 45 seconds, a record that no one came close to beating, making him the Head of House for week six. The task was to get a tennis egg from one edge of a slim board to the other side using only one finger. Most of the housemates struggled with the task and spent a lot of time to complete it. Not only did Seyi just become the Head of House, he also just broke the ‘first to play loses’ curse by playing first and setting an unbeatable record. He was then asked to pick one housemate to share his Head of House room with but he decided to try his luck. He asked Big Brother if he could pick two housemates instead and he was turned down by Biggie. He then proceeded to pick Esther to share his room with him. Winning this Head of House challenge means that Seyi gets to control most of the activities in the house for this week. He is also free from nominations this week and has won another 250 Bet9ja coins in the house. Watch video below: So far so good, we still leading the score board for the HOH challenge. . We finished 45 seconds 💪💪💪 . We pray this week favour Seyi as the new HOH.. . . #bbnaija #officialseyiawo #teamseyi #Team100Naira #Istandwithseyi #officialseyiawo #oppof11pro #explorepage A post shared by  Seyi Awolowo BBNaija 🌶🇳🇬 (@officialseyiawo) on Aug 5, 2019 at 7:15am PDT Source BBNaija 2018 housemate, Tobi has emerged head of house (HoH) for week 1. Tobi emerged after a task involving 8 housemates. Big Brother had asked them to form a tower using balloons. At the end, only Tobi’s construction stood out and was consequently installed as the head of house. Tobi… January 29, 2018 In "Entertainment" By Anita Eboigbe Abuja -   Miracle Ikechukwu has emerged the new head of House on the ongoing Big Brother Naija ‘Double Wahala’, winning the title for the second time. Miracle beat other housemates when he emerged the first to knock down all the bottles using the tennis ball in… March 19, 2018 In "Entertainment" Big Brother Naija, housemate, Frodd has emerged as the BBnaija winner for this week’s Head of House, HoH, challenge for the ‘Pepper dem gang’ edition. The position of HoH is usually assumed by a winner of the weekly task as instructed by Biggie. Two weeks ago, Esther emerged Head of… July 29, 2019 In "Entertainment"