By Zubairu Idris/Shehu Danjuma Sandamu – No fewer than 25,000 people would benefit from the free medical services to be provided by the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) in Sandamu Local Government Area of Katsina State. The NAF Director, Public Health and Humanitarian Services, Group Captain Ali Tanko, made the disclosure on Tuesday during the flag-off of the 2-day medical outreach in Sandamu. Tanko said that the event was part of activities for the commissioning of NAF Reference Hospital, Daura on Thursday. He said NAF would provide free consultation, medications, medical glasses and mosquito nets, as well as deworm and offer vitamin A supplements to children below five years. “The team comprise of professionals and trained medical experts who will offer the free medical services to beneficiaries. “Usually, we carryout tests and diagnose patients before giving them medications. “We have drugs for diabetic patients, as well as those people with High Blood Pressure, ulcer and malaria, among others,” he added. Tanko further said they would also perform minor surgeries while major ones would be referred to the NAF Reference Hospital, Daura. He said NAF did similar medical outreach to Nigerians in many parts of the country. The director commended the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshall Sadique Abubakar for the initiative. “He has seen the need for that in this community, it is part of our tradition that whenever we are going to commission some projects, we normally carryout medical outreach. “We want to have a cordial relationship with host communities, we don’t want a situation whereby they will see us as enemies. “We are here to protect them both security and medical health issues,” he said. In his remarks, the Transition Committee Chairman, Sandamu LGA ,  Alhaji Sani Aliyu, commended the NAF for the initiative. He said  the exercise would have positive impact on people of the area. Aliyu therefore urged the people to comply with the rules and regulations governing the conduct of the medical outreach.