Abuja (Sundiata Post) _ The Lagos Division of the Federal
High Court Thursday remanded a former Chairman of the Independent and National
Electoral Commission (INEC) in the custody of the Economic and
Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) pending the hearing of his application
for bail. The EFCC had arraigned Mr Iwu before Chuka Obiozor, the judge,
on a four-count charge of aiding unlawful concealment of N1.2 billion suspected
to be proceeds of fraud. According to the commission, the offence was committed between
December 2014 and March 2015. While moving motion for bail, Ahmed Raji counsel to Mr Iwu,
informed the court that his client had been on administrative bail prior to
arraignment and had not missed an appointment. Mr Raji said he had filed a motion challenging the territorial
jurisdiction of the court but would like to wait till after bail was
determined. In response, the judge said the bail application cannot proceed
until the jurisdiction of the court is determined because deciding whether or
not to grant bail presupposes that the court has jurisdiction over the matter. Mr Raji then requested that the motion challenging the court’s
jurisdiction be struck out so the bail hearing could proceed. Rotimi Oyedepo, the EFCC counsel, however, said he had just been
served the motion for bail this morning and needs time to assess the
particulars. “I was informed the application was forwarded to the legal
department but I informed them I had been transferred from the department,” he
said. ”I just received another copy this morning and I would need time
to review it.” Mr Ahmed then prayed the court for the defendant to be released
to him instead of being remanded in prison pending the hearing of the bail application. ”The whole essence of remanding a defendant on trial is to
ensure prompt attendance until the determination of his case,” he said. ”If the court releases him to me, I pledge on my honour to
produce him in court.” Advertisement Mr Oyedepo opposed the bail application saying the magnitude of
the offence could make the defendant to abscond. In his ruling, Mr Obiozor, a professor of Law, refused the plea
of the defence counsel to release the defendant to him pending the hearing of
the bail application. The judge said such a decision would amount to preempting the
outcome of the bail hearing. “I direct the defendant be remanded in EFCC custody till
tomorrow when bail will be taken,” he added. The EFCC said Mr Iwu had been under investigation since 2015,
for money laundering.