By Rasaq Ibrahim, Ado Ekiti   A yet-to-be-identified commercial motorcyclist popularly called ‘Okada rider’ on Thursday allegedly raped a middle-aged woman, Mrs Bukola Olarewaju to death in Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State capital. The suspect was alleged to have broken into the woman’s room located at Olorunda area of the state capital with a cutlass forcibly to perpetuate the dastard act. Olanrewaju, mother of three was allegedly raped and strangulated by the suspect identified as her tenant. The suspect who was a tenant to the deceased had fled after allegedly committed the nefarious act. A resident of the area, who craved anonymity, revealed that the woman was said to have been raped around 11 am when her husband had gone to work and children were away at a coaching centre The source said the corpse of the woman was seen in the room while her two hands were tied by the assailant before she was forcefully raped. “Her two hands were bound while her pant was down which confirmed that he was raped”. The source also fingered the fleeing tenant as being allegedly responsible for the murder. When contacted, the police public Relations Officer Caleb Ikechukwu confirmed the incident, saying the suspect after raping the woman strangulate her to death. He said medical examination conducted on the deceased at the Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital (EKSUTH) confirmed that she was raped before being strangled to death by her assailant. “Medical examination confirmed the above but we have not been able to ascertain who actually committed the crime and what actually led to that. “Apart from this, we saw condom and semen within the scene where the crime was committed, which also substantiated the fact she was actually raped. “We were told that a man, who was a neighbour actually did it and fled. We are yet to arrest the man but proper security arrangements have been made that would ensure speedy arrest of the suspect”. Ikechukwu said the deceased’s husband had deposited the corpse at EKSUTH morgue while investigation is ongoing on the matter. Source: The Nation