A 30-year old on Tuesday allegedly stabbed his mother, Mrs. Grace Anaka to death in Ifite Oraifite in Ekwusigo local government area of Anambra State. The suspect, Nwabueze Anaka, said to be a pastor with one of the new generation churches in the area, reportedly committed the crime in the family compound in the early hours. The Nation gathered that the suspect took to his heels immediately he killed the mother. The reason for the dastardly act was yet to be ascertained as at press time. Confirming the incident, Police spokesperson, Haruna Mohammed said the deceased was stabbed with a dagger. He said: “There was a report at Oraifite Division today 27/8/2019 at about 12:00pm that same date at about 6:am, one Nwabueze Anaka, aged about 30yrs of Umunakwa Oraifite, allegedly stabbed his mother one Grace Anaka ‘f’, aged about 50 years with a dagger and took to flight. “Police detectives attached to the Division visited the scene, photographed and took the victim to the hospital where she was certified dead by the medical doctor after which corpse was deposited at the rest land morgue, Oraifite. “Circumstances surrounding the incident is yet to be ascertained but the complainants alleged that the suspect is having some mental challenges.” Mohammed said the case was being investigated while efforts were on to apprehend the fleeing suspect in order to bring him to justice. A young lawyer who just finished his National Youth Service Corps programme has allegedly stabbed his younger brother to death in Anambra State, Punch has reported. According to reports, the 28-year- old suspect, Victor Ohale, stabbed his younger brother, Kelechi Ohale, with a knife in the head and he died… June 25, 2019 In "Metro" By Chimezie Anaso Awka -  A 60-year old man, Mr Cletus Aguluka, has allegedly killed his daughter, Miss Onyinye Aguluka, in her sleep. The incident occurred at about 2 a.m on Friday in Osikwu Village Awgbu, Orumba North Council Area of Anambra. According to Mrs Georgina Aguluka, wife of the… June 2, 2018 In "Metro" Sunday Ngwu, a 41-year-old man, has been arrested by Anambra State police command for allegedly killing his wife, Amara, on Ikwo Street, Ibollo, Awada, in Idemili North Local Government Area of the state. The suspect who hails from Nkanu LGA of Enugu State, allegedly killed his 39- year-old wife after… June 11, 2019 In "Metro"