By Angela Atabo Abuja – A Civil Society Oranisation known as ACT on Wednesday expressed worry over the spate of extrajudicial killings  in the country and called for proactive measures by government to curb it. Mr Kolawole Johnson, the Acting Director, Research, Strategy and Communications, ACT made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja. According to Johnson, the development calls for urgent intervention in order to strengthen confidence of the citizenry. Johnson said that there was also the need to investigate reports of killing of civilians by security agents to curb the menace. “If you have followed our activities in recent times, you will understand our position on the general security situations in the country; for avoidance of doubt, our organisation lamented this spate of extrajudicial killings especially by security agents. “The Friday preceding the Salah holiday, a lot of Nigerians spent over nine hours on Kaduna-Abuja road because a trigger happy Policeman killed a driver. “There were some other killings in some other parts of the country in the past week, the indiscipline in the force today is very unhealthy for our nation. “When the policemen were killed in Taraba, our organisation was worried, because every Nigerian is important, in the same vein, we cannot gloss over the killings of innocent Nigerians by the police.’’ Johnson called on President Muhammadu Buhari to bring his experience to bear on the nation’s security apparatus to curb the indiscriminate killings, addng that it was capable of truncating Nigeria’s nascent democracy. This, he said was the reason the group clamoured for fresh hands as security chiefs for the next level of Buhari’s administration. “Perhaps, we should seize the opportunity to appeal to the President to ensure that we have round pegs in round holes in allocation of ministerial portfolios. “When you have appropriate hands in the right places, you do not struggle with performance. “The nation cannot afford to crawl at present, the ministers should take the batons and run as fast as our ideas and resources can take us,’’ he said. Johnson said that in setting agenda, it was absolutely necessary to retool the office of the Secretary to the Federal Government to monitor policy and programmes implementation across the ministries and set the right indexes for periodic evaluation. He said that the office of Research and Statistics should also be strengthened to perform its duties to the benefits of the nation. According to him, this will make it easier for government to keep tabs on policy implementations, impacts and further needs assessment. He said that one of the best forms of effective and efficient implementations, was to appoint the right person thus enhancing performance and that way the President would leave legacies behind.(NAN)