Ebuka informed viewers that contrary to opinions that the new housemates are fake, they are indeed real and would be battling for the 60million prize. Big Brother, BBNaija host, Ebuka has confirmed that the five housemates introduced to the ‘pepper dem’ reality show last week are not fake housemates. It was reported that following the introduction of five housemates last week, other housemates had expressed mixed feelings towards the development. Big Brother had on Tuesday introduced two new housemates, Vendita and Elozanam, into the reality show. Big Brother again on Wednesday brought in two new housemates, Joe and Ede Nkechinyere, AKA Enkay. He also introduced the last housemate, Cindy, during the Friday live show. However, during the live show on Sunday, Ebuka informed viewers that contrary to opinions that the new housemates are fake, they are indeed real and would be battling for the 60million prize. Ebuka also stated that the new housemates will not be up for possible eviction this week. He said they will not nominate any housemate during the Live Nomination Show, adding that they will not also participate in the Veto Power Challenge. According to him, Biggie wants the new housemates to enjoy their first full week in the house. Source Nigerians on Twitter are reacting to the decision by Big Brother to return two out of the 11 already evicted housemates into the Big Brother Naija 2018 house.   Last night during the live eviction show, the host Ebuka Obi-Uchendu, informed viewers that they will be voting to bring… March 19, 2018 In "Entertainment" Bambam’s eviction should teach us a lesson. This is how Jesus will come. It happened like rapture. That’s how Nigerians viewed the eviction of Bambam from the House, with many hoping to be told that it was an April Fool prank. Big Brother (Biggie) unexpectedly evicted Bambam from the reality… April 1, 2018 In "Entertainment" Following the announcement that Big Brother Naija will on Tuesday introduce a new twist to the ongoing ‘Pepper Dem’ reality show, there are rumours that two controversial Instagram users would be introduced by Big Brother to spice up #bbnaija show. Ebuka Obi-Uchendu, host of #BBNaija on Sunday during Live eviction… July 30, 2019 In "Entertainment"