  Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former Aviation Minister, Femi Fani-Kayode has shown his support for Igbos following the arrest of the 77 Igbo men that were recently arrested by the FBI. According to Fani-Kayode, ‘If you insist that all Igbo are criminals because of the names on the list of 80 that the Americans have released, then you must also insist that all Yoruba are criminals based on the list of names that the Saudi Arabians have accused of drug trafficking and are about to kill’. If you insist that we cannot judge the Frace based on the genocidal and barbaric actions of the Fulani terrorists and the destructive narrative of the Fulani supremacists then you dare not judge the Igbo race based on the criminal behaviour of 80 Igbos in a foreign land. If you insist that ALL Igbos are criminals because of the names on the list of 80 that the Americans have released then you must also insist that ALL Yorubas are criminals based on the list of names that the Saudi Arabians have accused of drug trafficking and are about to kill. The point is simple and clear: all races and ethnic nationalities have their own fair share of criminals and deviants. It is therefore wrong for anyone to demonise or label a whole race based on the criminal actions of a few. Yet based on the history of our nation and our experience over the last 59 years it is clear to me that there is one particular race, tribe and ethnic nationality that insists on controlling others, that excels in crimes against humanity, that delights in bloodshed and the taking of human life, that derives pleasure from indulging in ethnic cleansing, mass murder and genocide, that enjoys inflicting pain, terror and suffering and that have dominated, subjugated, enslaved, troubled and tormented the indigenous tribes and ethnic nationalities of Nigeria more than any other. That race, tribe and ethnic nationality is NOT the Igbo, the Yoruba, the Ijaw, the Tiv, the Berom, the Tarok, the Kanuri, the Igala, the Idoma, the Uruhobo, the Itsekiri, the Efik, the Ibibiyo, the Kalabari, the Nupe, the Gbagi, the Igbira, the Eggon, the Kataf, the Baju, the Shuwa Arab, the Jukun, the Anang or any of the other indigenous ethnic nationalities that make up our nation. The tribe that I am referring to know who they are. They are not an indigenous Nigerian tribe but came from a foreign and distant land and settled here. They are those that the late Bola Ige once referred to as “the Tutsis of Nigeria”. That tribe have questions to answer and explanations to make for their consistently outrageous, barbaric and horrendous behaviour and their not-so-hidden ethnic and religious agenda. Who are they? Who the cap fits, let them wear it! (Femi Fani-Kayode, 24th August 2019) Culled from Information Nigeria 