NAIROBI    –    Kenya Airways, which is being renationalised to save it from mounting debts, saw its first-half pretax loss more than double from a year earlier to 8.56 billion Kenyan shillings ($83 million), its results statement showed on Tuesday. Kenya’s parliament voted in July to renationalise the loss-making airline, which is labouring under a mountain of debt and has had three changes of chief executive in the past five years as it struggles to compete with regional rivals. The government plans to buy out minority shareholders including Air France-KLM’s 7.8% stake. The carrier said its first-half revenue rose 12.2% from a year earlier to 58.55 billion shillings, which Chief Financial Officer Hellen Mathuka attributed to the launch of new routes and more frequent flights. However, the airline’s operating costs rose to 61.45 billion shillings, from 53.22 billion shillings in the same period last year, Mathuka said. That was partly due to two Boeing 787 planes that had been sub-leased to Oman Air being returned during the first half of the year, she said. The government will take at least 21 months to take back full control of Kenya Airways, buying out minority shareholders and converting shares held by banks into Treasury bonds, a lawmaker briefed on the transaction told Reuters in July. ($1 = 103.2000 Kenyan shillings) (Reuters) by David Malingha and DoyaLiezel Hill Kenya Airways Ltd.’s proposed $600 million bailout may increase the African country’s holding in the carrier while diluting the 27 percent stake held by Air France-KLM, a senior government official said. Kenya and the Paris-based airline are the two biggest shareholders in Kenya Airways,… August 6, 2015 In "Business" NAIROBI - Kenya Airways posted a pretax loss of 8.56 billion Kenyan shillings ($82.95 million) in first half of 2019, compared with a loss of 3.99 billion shillings in the same period in 2018, it said on Tuesday. Kenya’s parliament voted in July to renationalise the loss-making airline, which is… August 27, 2019 In "Business" Nairobi  - Kenya Airways would report improvement in operating profit and narrower losses for the year ending in March, its Chief Executive Officer, Mbuvi Ngunze, said on Friday. Ngunze said in Nairobi that the improvement was due to savings made by reducing the size of its fleet and lower fuel… March 11, 2016 In "Business"