By Chijioke Agwu ABAKALIKI – A 28-year-old man, Elijah Egbara, a native of Oshiegbe community in Ezza North Local Government Area of Ebonyi State was found dead in his matrimonial bed the following day, after having sex with his fiancée. Saturday Independent gathered that the deceased and his fiancée went to bed after dinner the night before the incident, without any complaint of sickness or pain, by the former. A source close to the deceased and his fiancée, who spoke to our correspondent on condition of anonymity, said the fiancee of the deceased had raised the alarm of the incident which attracted other neighbours in the vicinity. The source said, “After having their dinner, they slept together on the same bed only for her to wake up the following day, and discovered that her husband-to-be had given up the ghost. She raised the alarm and other neighbours ran out to meet her. “The man they said had never complained of anything, and even his wife-to-be said he was not sick. He had no pains in any part of his body. He was a native of Oshiegbe in Ezza North LGA of Ebonyi State.” Confirming the incident, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Loveth Odah, disclosed that the suspect was initially arrested by the police, but released on request of both her parents and that of the deceased to, enable them ascertain the cause of the death. Odah said autopsy was being conducted on the corpse, to further ascertain, not just the immediate, but the remote cause of the death. The Police spokesperson said, “One Oluchi Nwenu in company of one Joseph Ezega of Hatchery Road Abakaliki, by Nnodo Guest House, went to the Central Police Station Abakaliki and reported that around 9pm of August 2, 2019, she went to bed together with her fiancé, Elijah Egbara, (M), 28 years, naked. “When they reported the matter to the Police station and narrated what happened, a team of police detectives from CPS Abakaliki led by the DCO visited the scene, took photograph of the deceased and took him to the hospital. Getting to the hospital, the doctor on duty unfortunately confirmed him dead. The corpse has been deposited in the mortuary.” (Independent)