The 2019 Big Brother Baija, BBNaija on Saturday night witnessed another dramatic moment This time around, the drama ensued when Venita went on Mike’s bed, who was deep asleep and instigated trouble. Venita tied Mike’s legs while Jackye joined as they both dragged him away from his bed. Mike hesitated at several attempts as they tried to remove his duvet exposing him with his shorts. He later got angry as he kept on screaming ‘Consent’ asking Jackye to leave his bed. Mike, who was apparently pissed at both female housemates, left the bed and threw Jackye into the Jacuzzi, locked Venita in the bathroom and retired to bed. The female housemates seem to have done that trying to make Mike stay awake. However, some BBNaija fans expressed disappointment over Jackye and Venita’s behavior towards Mike despite his plea to them. Here are some comments gathered by DAILY POST from Twitter; @Yettydolz “Double standards have to stop. Let’s flip the script, what if it was a married woman that had her personal place invaded by two single men? I’m sure the whole street will be saying it’s sexual harassment. I repeat, Venita & Jackye do not understand boundaries period! @Jhnequeen “Mike was screaming consent and everyone thinks that what Jackye ‘was doing’ to him was funny and normal! @ChiamakaOkoye20 “Honestly, I don’t like what Jacky and Venita did last night, truth be told, it is too expensive and Mike didn’t enjoy it either, so they should stop it.” @Tfass3 “I’m not happy that Mike is entertaining this stupid crap. He should call her to order and set some fucking boundaries. Damn.” @Iamwinner11 “Jackye should leave Mike (the married man) alone. I think she’s looking for some action before she leaves tomorrow.” @Peaciy “Mike just bear for now in few hours Jackey is going home.” @miarilinde “Jackye will Rape MIKE biggie call her to order please.” @Jay_jee “Come, Jackye and Venita want to rape Mike o.. Isn’t this sexual harassment? @Gara_ruth “Biggie please caution Jackye already, she is disturbing Mike.” 