A Nigerian man alleged to be sleeping with teenage boys has been apprehended by security operatives.  Behind Bars Right Foundation (human rights) has arrested a 42-year old man identified as Kingsley Onuoha for engaging in homosexuality and sodomizing a 16-year old orphan (anal penetration).  BBI Intelligence team led by DG, Gwamnishu Emefiena Harrison and Barr. Prince Ibe, Rivers State BBI Director, verified the story and swiftly mobilised and tracked down suspect. Luck, however, ran out on him on August 19, 2019, when he sneaked into his shop and was busted by BBI team. The 16-year old victim is currently receiving treatment (hospital name withheld) as well as meeting with health counselors for health talk on how to manage the situation. “We’ve handed the suspect over to Oyigbo Divisional Police Station, Rivers State. Suspect will be taken for medical examination (HIV test) to verify his status”. Watch video below: Today we arrested the leader of a gay group who specialize in sodomizing underaged children in Rivers State. .. . #SWIPE #SODOMY #Defilement BBI ARREST 42-YEAR OLD GAY LEADER KINGSLEY ONUOHA FOR SODOMY IN OYIGBO, RIVERS STATE. Behind Bars Right Foundation (Human Rights) has arrested a 42-year old man identified as Kingsley Onuoha for engaging in homosexuality 👨‍❤‍👨 and sodomizing a 16-year old orphan (Anal Penetration). . . BBI Intelligence team led by DG,Gwamnishu Emefiena Harrison and Barr. Prince Ibe, Rivers State BBI Director, verified the story and swiftly mobilised and tracked down suspect. . . Luck, however, ran out on him on August 19, 2019, when he sneaked into his shop and was busted by BBI team. . . The 16-year old victim is currently receiving treatment (Hospital name withheld) as well as meeting with health counselors for health talk on how to manage the situation. We've handed the suspect over to Oyigbo Divisional Police Station, Rivers State. Suspect will be taken for medical examination (HIV test) to verify his status. For rights violation in Nigeria, beep, sms, whatsapp or call 09068773333 Gwamnishu Emefiena Harrison DG,Behind Bars A post shared by  Gwamnishu Harrison (@harrison_gwamnishu) on Aug 19, 2019 at 1:05pm PDT Source