By Segun Giwa Akure – The National Association Ondo State Students (NAOSS), has elected new executives to pilot its affairs for the next two years. The election, which took place during the 11th national convention/election of the association, on Sunday in Akure, had David Kikiowo emerging as the newly-elected president. Kikiowo, who had 108 votes, defeated the duo of Blessing Adeyemi and Babatope Akintade, who polled only four votes and two votes respectively, to emerge victorious. Blessing Ogunmola emerged as the Vice President unopposed, with Samuel Awolumate also emerging as the General Secretary unopposed. The new president, Kikiowo, in his acceptance speech, said he was happy to have emerged as the president and promised to uphold the constitution of the association. He urged other executive members to cooperate with him and move the association forward in the country. He promised to always defend and protect the interest of students from the state. The immediate past President of NAOSS, Emmanuel Akeredolu, said he thanked God for seeing him through his tenure with “landmark achievements”. Akeredolu said part of his achievements was being able to ensure better welfare package from the government for the students across the country. He later appreciated the government of the state for always listening to the association, especially when there was increment in tuition of the state-owned university, Adekunle Ajasin University, Akugba Akoko (AAUA). Mr Banji Adewunmi, SA to Gov. Akeredolu on Youth and Student Affairs, told newsmen on the sidelines of the event that “our government does not have undue interference in students’ affairs.” Adewumi urged the new executives to come upt with new programmes for the students of the state that would stir them in academic pursuit. He said students from the state had been enjoying bursary payments and scholarship with the cooperation of NAOSS. Adewumi urged the new executives to be partners in progress with the government “so as to continue the educational advancement that had improved since the inception of the current administration in the state.”