According to a report by TheCable, some unidentified gunmen have killed Saidu Kolaku, a leader of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) in Adamawa state. The assailants were said to have invaded his home on Saturday at Sabon Pegi in Mayo Belwa local government area in the state and shot him dead. Prior to his death, Kolaku was the zonal vice-chairman of the MACBAN (Adamawa south). Sulaiman Nguroje, the state police spokesman, who confirmed the incident, said the victim died in the hospital. ‘’Unknown gunmen stormed the resident of the Fulani leader located at Sabon Pegi in Mayo Belwa local government, shot him and left him in the pool of his blood,” he said. ‘’Following the incident, a distress call was forwarded to the police who rushed to the scene and took the victim to the hospital where he was confirmed dead by the doctor on duty.” The spokesman also revealed that the state commissioner of police has ordered personnel of the homicide department to investigate the circumstance that led to Kolaku’s death. ‘’Indeed, police received the death of the slain man with shock because of his invaluable contribution towards fighting crime and criminality especially his gallantry in the fight against kidnappers,” he said. “The command has launched manhunt for the fleeing culprits and God’swilling, they will be tracked down and brought to justice.” In his reaction, Muhammad Buba, public relations officer (PRO) of Miyetti Allah in the state, described Kolaku’s killing as a reprisal attack from persons who were provoked by his effort in fighting crime. “Efforts of Kolaku in fighting crime had made the police command to honour him on 17th July 2019, for his gallantry and valiant exploits in fighting kidnappers and cattle rustlers rampaging the state,” he said. “It’s unfortunate that the death of our zonal leader will seriously undermine the fight against crime and criminality in the state.’’ Adamawa is one of the states affected by insecurity, insurgency and periodic incidences of inter-communal killings.