By Mabel Yakubu Kaduna   –      A Kaduna Chief Magistrates’ Court, on Tuesday, ordered that four men, who allegedly abducted a teenage girl, be remanded in prison, pending legal advice. The police charged Mohammed Musa, 25 ; Suleiman Umar , 27;,Sunajo Ibrahim, 26 and Yunusa Ja’eh, 25, with two counts of conspiracy and kidnapping. The Chief Magistrate, Mr Musa Lawal, who did not take the plea of the defendants, ordered that the police to send the case file to the Kaduna State Director of Public Prosecutions for advice. Lawal adjourned the case until Sept. 9 for mention. Earlier the Prosecution Counsel, Insp. Yusuf Inuwa, told the court that the case was transferred by the Director State Security Kaduna, to the Commissioner of Police Kaduna State, on Aug.16. According to him, the defendants and two other persons, at large, kidnapped a teenager from Ugwan Uku in Kano State to Kaduna State in Nov. 2018 Inuwa said during investigation the Musa(first suspect) was arrested and he revealed the whereabouts of the other defendants, who were later arrested . He said the offence contravened the provisions of sections 59 and 247 of the Kaduna State Penal Code, 2017. By Mabel Yakubu Kaduna - A Chief Magistrates’ Court in Kaduna on Monday ordered that a 25-year-old trader, Jibrin Usman, who allegedly Kaduna State d a 12-year-old girl be remanded in prison custody pending legal advice from the Kaduna State Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) Magistrate Ibrahim Sidi, who gave the… February 11, 2019 In "Metro" By Mabel Yakubu     Kaduna,   -       A Daura Road Chief Magistrates’ Court in Kaduna, Kaduna State, on Thursday ordered the remand of three men for alleged armed robbery. The defendants – Rabiu Abdullahi, Ibrahim Dahiru and Anas Mohammed – are standing trial on a two-count… August 9, 2018 In "Metro" By Mabel Yakubu   Kaduna   -     An 18-year-old trader, Lawal Daura, on Tuesday appeared in Daura Road Chief Magistrates’ Court in Kaduna over alleged defilement of a 9-year-old girl. The prosecutor, Sgt. Hinga Nyimze, told the court that one Tukur Ibrahim reported the case at the Rigasa Police Divisional Headquarters… June 26, 2018 In "Metro"