By Jessica DogoAbuja – The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and the Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research (NISER) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Research and Policy for National Development. The two organisations signed the MoU when the Director-General of NISER, Dr Folarin Gbadebo-Smith, led a delegation of the organisation on a courtesy visit to NCC Headquarters on Thursday in Abuja. Gbadebo-Smith said the visit was aimed at familiarising NISER with agencies and to understand their needs better He said the aim would be achieved usings data evidence to make their work impactful and create a network that would boost national development. According to him, when the two organisations work together,it will also boost their capabilities to compete favourably with a other organisations in developing countries. Gbadebo-Smith,who noted that NCC had been of considerable assistance to NISER over the years, disclosing that the commission recently gave some laptops to NISER, thanked the sister organisation for the gesture. “Government is a network and we are trying to bring agencies together, to produce value for the betterment of Nigeria,” Gbadebo-Smith said. Responding, the Executive Vice-Chairman, NCC, Prof. Umar Dantata, assured NISER of corporation,as President Muhammadu directed. He was represented by the Director, Policy and Planning of the commission, Mr Mohammed Babajika. He expressed optimism that Buhari’s directive for synergy among agencies would have a robust understanding and network among them and  the drie drive the agencies to the next level agenda of the government. Danbatta said the idea was a step in the right direction but called for the formation of a committee to identify the needs of the two agencies. Danbatta identified areas of collaboration between NISER  and NCC to include consumer satisfaction index, pull resources on research spectrum, data analysis, research and development. He stated that NCC required engagement and collaboration, especially with organisations that had similar aims and objectives. “Let us look at it together and have an MoU so that we can assist each other by creating a small group to identify our needs and advise us accordingly on areas of collaboration. “NCC will be part and parcel of NISER, this is not far from the directive of Mr President. “With clear synergy, understanding and network between agencies, the effort will drive the country to the next level. “Today’s engagement is to facilitate toward that directive, to ensure that we are moving together as one. “We are looking forward to this collaboration for research solutions in our commission, NISER should step up efforts to bring solution to financial flaws in the country. “We are doing this so that we can harmonise these objectives together and this will make us transform our economy as directed by Mr. President,” he said. (NAN)