There was wild jubilation today at the Commonwealth of Zion Assembly following the return of Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo. Fatoyinbo in church today preaching Founder of the Commonwealth of Zion Assembly, Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo’s return to the pulpit today, weeks after he stepped down following multiple accusations of sexual assault has been greeted with wild jubilation. Recall that he had on July 1st announced on Instagram that he will be taking a “leave of absense from the pulpit of the church”. He added in his statement then that stepping down will “enable me to submit to the concerns of my spiritual mentors as they consider all the issues that have been raised against me” However, video evidence shared by his members from his church in Abuja shows the members rejoicing and giving him a rousing welcome as he mounted the pulpi to preach about “sudden victories” today. On Sunday, the COZA senior pastor delivered a sermon titled, Sudden victories, in a packed church auditorium. He focused his sermon on the books of 1st Timothy 6:12; Mark 4:35-37 and 1st Corinthians 10:13. Fatoyinbo said it was written in the Bible that Christians would always face persecution, but God would ensure that they are victorious. He said, “As a Christian, you must face opposition. If God, who is holy and faithful has enemies, you are sure going to have.” The cleric said most times, when faced with troubles, Christians have the tendency to call everyone except God for help. He noted that the reason most Christians fail is that they address challenging circumstances on the surface, instead of addressing the root of the matter, which is the enemy, and putting him in his place. “In wrestling, any method can be used. When faced with challenging circumstances, pray, fast, decree, confess and prophesy God’s victory over your life. “Most contrary situations around you are set up by the enemy to ripple your faith and keep you on a spot,” he preached. Fatoyinbo prophesied that his parishioners would witness victory in the new month of August. He is currently being probed by the Nigeria Police Force for allegedly raping the wife of popular musician, Timi Dakolo, 20 years ago when she was a teenager. Watch video below: