Abuja (Sundiata Post) –   President Muhammadu Buhari, has, subject to Senate confirmation, approved the composition of the Board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) made up of the following persons: S/N Position Name State 1 Chairman Dr. Pius Odubu Edo 2 Managing Director Bernard O. Okumagba Delta 3 Executive Director Projects Engr. Otobong Ndem Akwa Ibom 4 Executive Director Finance & Admin. Maxwell Okoh Bayelsa 5 Delta Rep Prophet Jones Erue Delta 6 Edo Rep Chief Victor Ekhatar Edo 7 Rivers Rep Dr. Joy Yimebe Nunieh Rivers 8 Abia Rep Nwogu Nwogu Abia 9 Bayelsa Rep Theodore A. Allison Bayelsa 10 Akwa Ibom Rep Victor Antai Akwa Ibom 11 Cross River Rep Maurice Effiwatt Cross River 12 Ondo Rep Olugbenga Elema Ondo 13 Imo Rep Hon. Uchegbu Chidiebere Kyrian Imo 14 Northwest Rep Aisha Murtala Muhammed Kano 15 Northeast Rep Ardo Zubairu Adamawa 16 Southwest Rep Engr. Badmus Mutalib Lagos Olusegun A. Adekunle, Esq, (KJW) Permanent Secretary (General Services Office) for: Secretary to the Government of the Federation Abuja - President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday requested the Senate to confirm Sen. Victor Ndoma-Egba as Chairman of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). In a letter dated July 18, and read by President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, at plenary, the president also sought the approval for 18 others as… July 21, 2016 In "News" By Naomi Sharang Abuja -  The Senate on Wednesday, resolved to investigate the alleged illegal renewal of tenure of the present Board of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). It has, therefore, referred the matter to the Committee on Niger Delta Affairs, to liaise with the Secretary to the Government of… November 8, 2017 In "News" By Desmond Ejibas Port Harcourt - The Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) is planning to distribute vaccines, medical and waste management equipment to nine Niger Delta States, Dr Chris Amadi, Acting Executive Director of Finance and Administration,  said. In a statement issued on Sunday by the commission’s Director of Corporate… May 6, 2019 In "News"