Heavily armed security operatives from the Police Command in Lagos, the Army and NSCDC have barricaded entrance to the National Stadium, Surulere ahead of the #RevolutionNow protest spearheaded by Omoyele Sowore on Monday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Sowore, the Presidential candidate of African Action Congress (AAC) in the last general elections, was on Saturday was arrested by operatives of the Department of State Security (DSS) from his home. NAN reports that police patrol vehicles, including that of the Rapid Respond Squad (RRS), numbering more than 20, Armoured Personnel Carriers (APC), anti-riot operatives, Civil defence men and military joint Taskforce operatives OP MESSA, were stationed at the two main entrance to the stadium. As at 8.40 a.m few protesters, wearing orange caps, have started to converge under the stadium bridge, displaying neither banner nor placards, NAN further observed that the security operatives prevented employees of National Stadium, Students of National Institute for Sports (NIS) and members of the public whom had come to train, from gaining acccess into the stadium. A source told NAN reporters to leave the area as at 8.50 a.m. because the operatives were ready to tear-gas the protesters any moment. The Area Commander, Area C, ACP Tijani Fatai, told NAN that the operatives were on ground to stop any form of protests at the stadium. Fatai explained that they were not there to give security cover to protesters and advised the crowd already gathering in front of the National Stadium gate to stay away. The DCP, Operations in Lagos State command, Mr Mohammed Ali, told NAN in a telephone conversation, that the protesters failed to obtain the necessary permit to carry out the planned protest. “Their planned protest is unlawful. They did not obtain permission for the protest. If they say they have the permission, let them show it. “Any one that foment trouble will be dealt with according to law,“ Ali said. By Mateen Badru/Moses Omorogieva Lagos - Heavily armed security operatives from the Police Command in Lagos, the Army and NSCDC have barricaded entrance to the National Stadium, Surulere ahead of the #RevolutionNow protest spearheaded by Omoyele Sowore on Monday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Sowore, the Presidential… August 5, 2019 In "News" LAGOS - Gunshots rent the air on Monday morning as well-armed policemen and soldiers chased and forcibly dispersed members of the RevolutionNow movement who converged on the National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos. “The protesters, who arrived at the stadium around 7am on Monday, for the kick-off of the protest met a… August 5, 2019 In "Top Stories" By Olayinka Owolewa Ilorin - Sporting activities at the Kwara Stadium Complex, Ilorin in the early hours of Monday was put to a halt with the presence of heavily armed men of the Nigeria Police. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that athletes who had arrived at the stadium… August 5, 2019 In "News"