Abuja
(Sundiata Post) – Lagos state Police command on Monday said the #RevolutionNow
protesters were dispersed because they didn’t get permission from the police
before staging a protest. “There gathering is unlawful, an unlawful gathering is meant to
be dispersed,” the Area Commander, Area C, ACP Tijani Fatai said on Monday. “There is not going to be any protest nobody contacted the
police whether peaceful or not they were not permitted to protest.” Some group of protesters converged protesters on the
National Stadium Surulere, Lagos on Monday to demand the release of Sahara Reporter’s
publisher Omoyele Sowore’s but they were forcefully dispersed by soldiers and
policemen. His arrest came after he called for a massive protest against
the Nigerian government. Recall that Sowore was arrested in the early hours of
Saturday for allegedly inciting a regime change. The Department of State
Services while confirming Sowore’s arrest said his call for a nationwide
protest against the government threatened public safety, peaceful co-existence,
and social harmony. “These threats include threats of sabotage, threats of
subversion, threat of terrorism and, of course, ethnic agitations, separatist
agitations, economic sabotage and others,” DSS spokesman Peter Afunanya said on
Sunday. “If we are operating as a responsible security organisation and
someone is calling for revolution in Nigeria, we must understand the meaning of
revolution.” Sowore’s arrest triggered widespread condemnation, with
Nigerians calling for his immediate release hence the protest. Tijani insisted that the police had been mandated to stop the
protest from holding and that was why armed security operatives barricade the
National Stadium where protesters were gathering. By Mateen Badru/Moses Omorogieva Lagos - Heavily armed security operatives from the Police Command in Lagos, the Army and NSCDC have barricaded entrance to the National Stadium, Surulere ahead of the #RevolutionNow protest spearheaded by Omoyele Sowore on Monday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Sowore, the Presidential… August 5, 2019 In "News" Heavily armed security operatives from the Police Command in Lagos, the Army and NSCDC have barricaded entrance to the National Stadium, Surulere ahead of the #RevolutionNow protest spearheaded by Omoyele Sowore on Monday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Sowore, the Presidential candidate of African Action Congress (AAC)… August 5, 2019 In "News" LAGOS - Gunshots rent the air on Monday morning as well-armed policemen and soldiers chased and forcibly dispersed members of the RevolutionNow movement who converged on the National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos. “The protesters, who arrived at the stadium around 7am on Monday, for the kick-off of the protest met a… August 5, 2019 In "Top Stories"