A University of Abuja lecturer has been caught pants down with a student at a hotel after promising to upgrade her grades. The lecturer was caught pants down with a student A dean of one of the science-based faculties of the University of Abuja (UNIABUJA) is currently under investigation for soliciting s*x to award marks to one of his female students. The straw that broke the camel’s back was when the senior univeristy lecturer was set up in a hotel in Gwarimpa area of Abuja, where he had gone to have an affair with the student. According to , the student who was being disturbed by the faculty dean for sexual relationship, had reported the matter to the university’s security unit as well as the police. The dean would fail the student in a course he was taking unless she agreed to have s*x with him. The security agents were said to have asked the lady to play along, which led to the professor booking a hotel room in the highbrow Gwarimpa quarters to sleep with the student.“The dean was caught pants down in the hotel room trying to have s*x with the student,” the source said. This online news medium understands that although the university community falls under the responsibility of Lugbe Police Station, the sting operation and the arrest was handled by the police station in Gwarimpa. “He was taken to the police station that night and made to give a statement,”  The source said the university was keeping the scandal under wraps which was the reason it did not go public since. “Very few in the university know this has happened between the dean and his student and that is why other details of it are not available.” It was gathered that the incident may have happened about four weeks ago when the students of the institution were taking first semester examinations for the 2018/2019 academic session. Students resumed for the second semester last Monday after a two-week break that followed the exams. The Chief Security Officer of the university, Ibrahim Abdullahi Buga, could not be reached as his phone was switched off. But a source in the security department confided that the management of the university had set up a committee to investigate the alleged sexual assault on the student. The acting Information Officer of the university, Hajiya Maryam Mohammed, while confirming the setting up of the committee said the staff in question had been queried. “You know the man in question has been issued a query as a panel has been constituted to listen to him in order to give him a fair hearing.“That’s where we are right now because we have to wait for the committee to do something about it.“So I cannot tell you anything again until the committee finishes its work and as soon as there is anything, I will let you know,” she added. Also commenting on the alleged act, the Federal Capital Territory police commissioner, Bala Ciroma, confirmed that the police had received a report of an alleged sexual assault from a female student of the institution. The commissioner said the FCT police are investigating the matter.  \ Source Ekiti State University lecturer has been caught in a s*x scandal with his female student. An Accounting department lecturer in the Ekiti State University, Ado-Ekiti, Dr O.O Aduwo, was caught in a sx scandal yesterday after he was disgraced by students who caught him pants down, attempting to have sx… June 15, 2019 In "News" The Management of Ekiti State University, Ado Ekti has said that it has begun investigations into allegation of sexual misconduct involving one of its lecturers, Dr. O.O Aduwo. Mr. Bode Olofinmuagun, the Head, Directorate of Information and Corporate Affairs of the institution in a statement he signed in Ado Ekiti… June 15, 2019 In "Top Stories" The Senate, University of Ibadan, UI has suspended activities of the Students’ Union Executive Council (SUEC) and the Students’ Representative Council (SRC) of the University. There was an Emergency Meeting of the University Senate on Tuesday, 30 May, 2017 in the Senate Chamber where all matters relating to the students’… June 2, 2017 In "Education"