Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Residents of Awka in Anambra State Monday evening rescued a 27-year-old woman who dropped a suicide note threatening to kill herself and two her two years old son. The woman, who goes by the name,: Praise Eberechi Eze had posted
on Facebook, saying she would kill herself and her two-year-old son. A source said Praise has been in an abusive marriage and had thrice returned to her parents who sent her back, asking her to go back and make her marriage work. Narrating her
ordeal on her Facebook timeline, Eberechi wrote in April this year, “We live in
a society where no one cares. You live in an abusive marriage, no one care.
Society, friends and relatives. “They tell
you to pray and endure while the assault is on the increase. You pack home and
they tell you to go back and make your family work. Verbal abuse increase, you
are called bad wife, bastard, you smell awful, you feel you made a 2.1 in
school, come and get money for clearance. “When family
fails you because you are married, you damn the consequence, take a life and
serve the jail term.” A source said
the last paragraph of her post may have been meant her suspected ploy to murder
her husband, but later opted to take her own life and that of her son. On Monday
morning, Eberechi reportedly dropped a suicide note which read, “Soon I will
die, and in will take my little man along. I won’t leave him to the suffering
of verbal abuse, we will go to a place where there is peace unlimited. When I
die, don’t write an epistle for me. When I die, I should be buried in my
father’s house to avoid havoc. When I die, don’t cry, cos all is well in life
and death.” It was
gathered  that she deleted the post
minutes after, triggering fears that she may have gone away to harm herself,
and refused to take calls from friends. Facebook
users who had earlier made screenshots of her post sent it out, asking for help
for her, until late Monday night when she was tracked to a primary health
centre in Okpuno in Awka, where some residents who rescued her had taken her
for treatment. A Facebook
user, Cynthia Raphaels, who first spread the post, stated in a subsequent post
that she had been tracked down to the health centre, and had detailed two
female volunteers to keep an eye on her. Culled from Daily Post