By Mohammed Lawal Zaria (Kaduna State) – An NGO, Arewa Youth Trust Foundation (AYTF) on Tuesday, donated clothing materials, foods, drinks to orphans at Tukur-Tukur Orphanage Home, Zaria, Kaduna State in the spirit of the concluded Eid-el-Kabir. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that presence of the NGO at the home changed the mood of the orphans as they were seen smiling faces during the occasion. Speaking in an interview with NAN on the sideline of the celebration, Dr Fahad Ahmed-Chikaji, the NGO Chairman and Chief Executive, said the visit was to give the orphans a sense of belonging. He said: “This is a normal routine exercise of the NGO, in every festive periods such as Sallah and Christmas, we use to visit orphanage homes and hospitals to offer the little we have to both orphans and patients. “We are here today to show the orphans a sense of belonging, we want them to feel among. We are privileged that we grew up with our parents, but these orphans don’t even know theirs. “However, this is Almighty Allah’s will and that is how He wants to see them, so by our coming here, they will feel happy and whoever makes someone happy, Allah will make him happy too.” Ahmed-Chikaji observed that donating food to them without interacting with them would not solve some of their problems, hence the need to come and eat, drink, play games and celebrate with them. Members of Arewa Youth Trust Foundation (AYTF) celebrating Sallah with orphans at Tukur-Tukur Orphanage Home, Zaria, Kaduna State on Tuesday He said the essence of such efforts was to also to comfort them and let them bear in mind that the society cared for their existence, enquiring that if the society neglected them who then would care for them? The Chairman challenged the youth to exhibit the fear of Almighty Allah, saying that most of the orphans were abandoned children thrown away on the streets. Ahmed-Chikaji attributed the recurrence of the ugly trend to drug abuse among the youth, noting that drug played vital role in promoting moral decadence which in turn led to unwanted pregnancy. “If one is addicted to drugs, becomes intoxicated, he or she can lead to raping, unwanted pregnancy and all sorts of vices. “If our youths can shun drug abuse, it will go a long way in reducing this kind of problems. “I want appeal to government and other NOGs to intensify sensitisation and advocacy on the dangers of drug abuse. “They should also endeavour to be visiting the orphanage homes to give the orphans a sense of hope, love and care, ” Members of Arewa Youth Trust Foundation (AYTF) celebrating Sallah with orphans at Tukur-Tukur Orphanage Home, Zaria, Kaduna State on Tuesday On her part, Hajiya A’isha Salahuddeen-Mika’il, Women and Youth Mobilisation Officer of the NGO, described the orphans as equal to any human being that needed happiness, love, concern and care. She said as orphans, they also deserved to feel happy and feel belong, especially in this Sallah festival, adding that it was the main reason of the visit. “We are here to bring these orphans close to us, to give them a sense of togetherness, let them feel happy as every other person in the society. “We want to sit together with them just like their parents or their relatives, so that we can eat, chat, play and discuss issues with them,” she said. Responding, the Overseer of the Orphanage Home, Malam Sarki Mohammed-Awai, expressed appreciation for the gesture, urging the NGO to sustain the tempo. “First of all, I want to show my appreciation to the foundation, because as I learnt and from records, this is not the first time you have been visiting and donating to the home.“Let me assure you that the items you donated will be judiciously used for the good of the children,” Mohammed-Awai said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the NGO also visited Muslim Hospital, Danmagaji, as well as Anglican Hospital, Wusasa, where they sympathised with the sick and presented gifts to them. (NAN) KLM/DUA Edited by Dada Ahmed Members of Arewa Youth Trust Foundation (AYTF) celebrating Sallah with orphans at Tukur-Tukur Orphanage Home, Zaria, Kaduna State on Tuesday