By Sunday John Lafia   –    An NGO, Beacon Youths Initiative (BYI), has organised free hepatitis test for 1,000 people in Nasarawa State. Its Executive Director, Envoh Okolo, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), on Sunday at Dudun-Gwandara, a rural community in Lafia, that the test would afford the people the opportunity to know their status. “We want people to know their status; those who tested negative would be vaccinated to check the spread of the disease,” he said Okolo attributed the increasing rate of hepatitis to low awareness, low funding for hepatitis programmes and stigmatisation of infected persons. He expressed his organisation’s commitment to improving the quality of life of those infected with the disease through regular tests, counseling, sensitisation and vaccination. The executive director said that the NGO had offered free tests and vaccines to more than 6,000 people in the state, saying that the outreaches were its modest contributions toward addressing health challenges among the poor. “It is our belief that this intervention will assist the people to know their status and take precautionary measures to avert escalating their health conditions,” he added. Okolo said that the organisation was bringing healthcare closer to the people, especially those at the grassroots, and called on members of the public to go for regular check-ups to know their status early enough. Cecilia Akawu and Hadiza Ahmed, who spoke on behalf of other beneficiaries, expressed gratitude to the NGO for giving them the opportunity to know their status. By Isaac Ukpoju Lafia -  The Nasarawa State Government says that 1000 persons in the state are expected to be screened and counseled for hepatitis on July 28, to aid the eradication of the disease. The state Commissioner for Health, said this in Lafia on Friday while briefing newsmen on… July 27, 2018 In "Health" By Oluwabukola Akanni Ibadan - The University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, detects no fewer than 30 new cases of Hepatitis B on weekly basis, a Consultant Gastroenterologist, Dr Kolawole Akande has said. Akande, a Consultant in the Department of Medicine, UCH, made this known  during a screening for Hepatitis and… July 28, 2019 In "News" By Jacinta Nwachukwu, Medical experts observe that cases of hepatitis -- an inflammation of the liver --are on the increase in Nigeria. They note that although there are five types of the disease such as hepatitis A, B, C, D and E, the most common that have been on the… August 11, 2015 In "News"