By Shuaibu Tatu Birinin Kebbi – Kebbi State Governor, Abubakar Bagudu on Tuesday charged women leaders in the North West of the country to educate women to venture into businesses to enhance their productivity and be self reliant. Bagudu gave the charge in Birnin Kebbi shortly after receiving youth
and women leaders of the North West zone of All Progressives Congress
(APC). “I urge women leaders across the North West to educate women on the
need to embrace businesses so as to become productive to themselves and
the society. ”Every woman must be financially self-reliant; if women get the
opportunity to unleash their creativity, they will conquer poverty and
contribute to the family, society and country,” he said. Bagudu noted that the development of the society partly rest on those
in authority, but said citizens also have a responsibility to be part
of the process. He said that the introduction of the Anchor Borrowers Programme was
part of efforts by the Buhari administration to help farmers enhance
their productivity and economic status. The governor further urged women to form associations and seek for
guidance and financial support from government in order to improve their
economic status, create wealth and provide employment opportunity. He commended women for coming out en mass to vote at the just concluded presidential and National Assembly elections. ”The large turnout of women voters at the polls was commendable, the
number of women that turned out at the election outnumbered men in most
of the polling units across the state and I hope it will be same in the
next scheduled election,” he said. Earlier, the APC North-West women leader, Hajiya Yahazu Buba, in her
remark said they were in the state to rejoice with the governor over the
victory recorded in the last presidential and national assembly
elections. She added that they would not relent in  mobilising youth and women
to come out and vote for APC in the coming gubernatorial and state
assembly elections. Buba said part of the tour was to educate women and youth to learn from the mistakes of the past by voting wisely and correctly. Also, the Youth Leader, Sadiq Fakai also said they would continue to reach out to the youth to ensure peace during the polls. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) repots that the women leader
presented an award to Gov. Bagudu for initiating empowerment programs
for women and youths in the state. (NAN) By Rita Iliya Minna - Alhaji Umar Bago, (APC) House of Representatives member, representing Chanchaga… By Polycarp Auta Jos - Rep Istifanus Gyang of the PDP on Thursday emerged winner… By Ikechukwu Iweajunwa Owerri - The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Okigwe North…