By Olu Onemola There is no doubt that Olusegun Adeniyi is a popular
columnist. That is why one will expect that a writer of his caliber will not
rush to join a mob in giving an opinion on an issue without proper
investigation and full understanding of both the under-currents and the obvious
points. Neither should he engage in using his column to settle personal scores. At least, Adeniyi is known to be a journalist not a
politician. And this is in spite of the fact of his history as an indigene of
one of the towns in the southern part of Kwara State. However, his article last
Thursday, March 1, 2019, titled “The Message from Kwara” was a mere rush to
pass judgement on why the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) lost the Presidential
and National Assembly elections in his state. The article appeared to be a pure
betrayal of Adeniyi’s sentiment and partisan preference. It only shows his
long-harbored elite feeling about “why should it always be the Sarakis alone?”
This question based on envy and primordial sentiments have dominated Kwara
politics in the last 41 years when the Saraki political tendency and structure
has been in control of the state. Though, one could concede Adeniyi’s right to take a stand on
the politics of his state, it is just that he should feel comfortable and be
honest to declare his stand, motivation and interest so that his numerous
readers are not fed with disguised sentiments in the stead of pure journalistic
analysis. What gave Adeniyi out is that the article under reference was a mere
expression of bias and filled with falsehood, fallacies and misrepresentations
that litter the write-up. An instance was his narrative about the visit of Mr
Shawn Carter, otherwise known as Jay-Z to Ilorin in 2006. First, Adeniyi
created a fiction which made it look like the American artiste was invited to
Ilorin because Seni Saraki, the son of the then Governor has interest in music.
Second, he wanted it to look like Saraki was frivolous in assigning government
officials to receive a common, visiting musician, to Kwara, an illustration
that he had no respect for elders serving in his government. However, the fact is that in 2006, Beyonce Knowles was
invited to Nigeria by Prince Nduka Obaigbena, who is Adeniyi’s employer, and
other world renowned artistes for the THISDAY Musical Concert in Lagos. Her
partner, Shawn Carter, aka Jay-Z decided to accompany her to Nigeria where he
planned to further his pet project, “Water for Life” being pursued in
partnership with the United Nations which had appointed him as Ambassador. As UN ambassador, the American rapper was charged with the
responsibility to bring the worsening water and sanitation crisis to the
attention of the world’s young people. Jay-Z’s multimedia “Water for Life”
campaign, developed jointly with the UN’s Department of Public Information and
MTV Networks, included a television documentary, an interactive website
profiling the water problem in 26 countries and the distribution of free
education resources. The musician had chosen Nigeria and South Africa as
countries he would visit in order to understand how African governments meet
the clean water needs of their people and also to interact with ordinary folks.
In Nigeria, he chose Kwara State as a place to visit. And this is based on
reports that the state government was doing so much in the area of water
provision to the rural populace and that it has a young, development-oriented
leadership. The comments by the artiste during the visit also showed he was
happy with the strides made by the state in the area of provision of social
services to the people. While his partner was in Lagos for the Music concert in
Lagos, Jay-Z took time off to visit Ilorin. He commissioned a water project
completed by the state government at Iponrin, a community at the outskirts of
the state capital just as he witnessed the launch of a newly completed road
project inside the campus of the Kwara State Polytechnic. He also shared his
experiences across the world on challenges against provision of clean water and
various methods being adopted in other developing countries with top government
officials and opinion leaders. The visit to Ilorin was designed to form part of the
worldwide tour, for the musician that was to be chronicled by MTV and later
turned into a special documentary series. The series titled “Diary of Jay-Z:
Water for Life” was aired on all MTV’s 50 locally programmed channels with a
reach across 179 countries. All these facts were known to Adeniyi as a member of THISDAY
Board of Editors at the time. But he deliberately, for mischievous and partisan
purposes, decided to either reconstruct the narrative or ignore them to suit a
script that will make it look like the visit was planned for the benefit of the
then 11- year old primary school boy, son of the Senate President. One had thought
that even in playing dirty politics, Adeniyi should not have crossed the line
of decency by dragging in an innocent child. After all, he is also a father. Also, a man like Adeniyi who had served as spokesman to a
Nigerian President should know that if a dignitary is the guest of a
government, top officials whose assignment is connected to the issue, policy,
programme or project that is the subject or object of the visit would be
involved in welcoming, briefing and taking round the visitor. So, misconstruing
and misrepresenting the presence of certain government officials whose
portfolio was related to water supply and construction of the water project
that was commissioned by the musician at the airport reception for Jay-Z as a
disrespect for them is simply doing injustice to public service ethos. It can
only be done by a writer who is filled with hatred for the subject of his
writing and seeking to draw on irrelevant issues in order to perfect his
painting of the object of his hatred. Adeniyi in the article also claimed that he was not
gloating. Of course, except he wants to redefine the word, that is what his
article was all about. Ordinarily, I will not respond to him, if that was all
he did. This is because the Senate President is capable of defending himself.
However, one is compelled to respond to a columnist who chose to ignore the
facts that he is well acquainted with and would rather want to bring in an 11-
year old boy to script a tale by moonlight. This is not a good example to give
to upcoming writers. –Onemola is Special Assistant on New Media to the Senate
President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki