By Kudirat Musa Abuja – Some traders at the Dutse Market, Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have attributed the low patronage to the prevailing economic hardship and election activities. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)
reports that business activities at Dutse market were at low ebb on
Tuesday as the traders discussed the economic hardship. Mr Mohammed Isah, who came to buy
food items, told NAN that ”I am a father of three. The situation calls
for caution, especially for those of us who are civil servants.’’ ”The prices of all the commodities
have gone up and there is no money, even the little you have cannot buy
you anything,” he lamented. Mrs Jumai Adejoh, a foodstuff seller
said that by this period in 2015, businesses had reached their peak,
but now the reverse was the case. ”We are not seeing customers and
again, the products are very costly and most customers received February
salaries early have finished it because of election. ”Traders are witnessing one of the worst business downturns recently and many have closed their shops for now,” Adejoh said. Mrs Maria Bipoe, a foodstuff dealer,
urged the Federal Government to do the needful in the second term to
end the hardship in the country. She regretted the starvation being experienced in most families due to their inability to cope with the high cost of food items. ”The business is not moving as expected in view of the period we are and the reason is quite obvious. ”The prices of all food items have gone up and the people’s purchasing power is very low due to the prevailing inflation. ”I am appealing to the government to urgently address the galloping inflation being witnessed now,” she said. Mrs Ngozi Collins, another buyer,
said that she had stocked her house since first week of February because
things were expensive during and after election, “besides, most will
want to travel for election’’. “The ingredients are so expensive in
the market, a basket of tomatoes that was buying for between N10,000
and N15,000 is now N20,000 and small basket of pepper and onion goes for
N1,500 and N2,500. “I never used to wait for scarcity
before I  buy whatever I wanted, so that I could keep it before the
prices increase as we are experiencing now,’’ she said. A rice dealer, Mr Hassan Idris, said that unlike in 2015 when sales were up before and after election, this year was different. ”Now no sales at all; our customers
are complaining of no money with many of them saying their February
salaries had finished due to postponement of election. ”You come to the market and from the
morning till the time you close for the day, nobody comes to price your
goods let alone buying, it is really worrisome. “I cannot wait for this election to
go and let everything come back to normal because those who travelled
will come back and restock their houses,” he said. APC - 402, 961 PDP - 138, 484 APC - 285, 894 PDP - 218, 207 