By Ige Adekunle Sango-Ota(Ogun), – Two financial experts, Dr Samuel Nzekwe and Dr Titus Okurounmu, on Wednesday commended the Federal Government for reducing the benchmark lending rate from 14 per cent to 13.5 per cent. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)
reports that the Central Bank Governor, Mr Godwin Emefiele, had on
Tuesday while briefing newsmen in Abuja, said its Monetary Policy
Committee (MPC) took the decision at its 266th meeting. Also, the Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) was retained at 22.5 per cent and Liquidity Ratio (LR) at 30 per cent. NAN reports that this is the first time the lending rate has been altered since July 2016. In separate interviews with NAN in
Ota, Ogun State, the financial experts said the action would enable more
investors, particularly the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMES) to
access loans from banks. Dr Samuel Nzekwe, a former
President, Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN), said
the reduction of the lending rate was the right step in the right
direction. Nzekwe said that the high interest rate had hindered the Medium and Small Enterprises from accessing loans from the banks. “The cutting down of lending rate
will make more investors, particularly firms, and companies to access
loans in the banks,’’ he said. The former ANAN president said that
there was the need for CBN to also reduce the Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR)
so that banks could have more funds to lend to investors. “CBN should look holistically at
other monetary instruments like CRR and Liquidity Ratio (LR) to make
additional funds available to the people,’’ he said. Nzekwe further said that not
changing CRR and LR would create inflation in the short-run but this
would automatically disappear in the long-run. Also, Dr Titus Okurounmu, a former
Director, Budgetary Department, CBN, said that the MPC’s decision to cut
down the lending rate was a welcome development. “The reduction in the lending rate will encourage more investments in the country,’’ Okurounmu said. He, however called on the apex bank
to harmonise the fiscal and monetary policies “if the regulator wants
the lending rate to further come down’’. The former CBN director said that
cutting the lending rate would enable commercial banks to bring down
their interest rate, thus, making more people to have access to loans.