By Ismaila Chafe Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday inaugurated the Presidential Implementation Committee on Autonomy of the State Legislature and State Judiciary. Speaking at the inauguration which held at the Council Chamber of the
Presidential Villa, Abuja, President Buhari and urged members of the
Committee to be meticulous and diligent in the discharge of their
duties. He explained that the setting up of the Committee was necessitated by
the realization that Legislative and Judicial autonomy are necessary
pre-conditions for nation’s democracy to endure. According to him, the Committee is expected to foster effective
implementation of the autonomy constitutionally granted the State
Legislature and Judiciary under the 1999 Constitution (as amended). “It is my hope that when this is done, there will be proper checks
and balances, and the State Legislature and Judiciary shall be genuinely
empowered to carry out their respective Constitutional duties without
fear of dominance and or marginalization. “The Legislature, being the closest arm of government to the people,
and the Judiciary as the last hope of the common man, must both be seen
to be sufficiently independent to perform their respective
constitutional roles without any interference, let or hindrance. “In this regard, ensuring that these organs of government enjoy
financial autonomy will further enhance their efficiency and
independence,’’ he said. The president maintained that his administration was committed to
“strengthening our democracy by ensuring separation of powers among the
three arms of Nigerian Government, even at the State levels.’’ He said his administration had identified the need to sustain the
constitutionally guaranteed federal system of government by building
capabilities not only at the federal level but at all the federating
units. “This Committee has therefore been set-up, as a major reform of this
administration, to ensure that the autonomy granted to the legislature
and judiciary at the State levels is maintained, pursuant to Section 161
of the 4th Alteration to the 1999 Constitution (as Amended),’’ he
added. President Buhari also enjoined members of the committee to cooperate
with all relevant stakeholders to ensure compliance with the
constitutional provisions granting autonomy to State Legislature and
Judiciary, without deviating from its approved Terms of Reference which
are as follows: President Buhari, therefore, who urged members of the committee to
ensure compliance with their approved Terms of Reference, wished them
success in the discharge of their responsibilities. The Committee, chaired by the Attorney General of the Federation and
Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, has the Senior Special Assistant
to the President on National Assembly Matters, Sen. Ita Enang, as
Secretary. Earlier in his remarks, Chairman of the committee, Abubakar Malami,
described the inauguration of the committee as exceptional in the
historical development of the country. He said: “This giant act of the President being the first in the
historical evolution of Nigeria’s democracy has indeed yielded to the
aspiration of greater number of Nigerians and as a result constitutes on
of the major reasons for the President’s massive victory in the
recently concluded Presidential election.’’ He further observed that the committee was put in place in line with
the constitutional status of the federal government as a trustee of the
federating units of the country. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the committee is
expected to complete its deliberations and submit its report and
recommendations within three months from today.