By Onyeje Abutu Ogbadibo(Benue), – Former President of National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), Mr Daniel Onjeh, on Sunday burst into tears after the INEC declared Gov Samuel Ortom of Benue winner of the 2019 governorship election. Onjeh, who started crying in reaction to Ortom’s victory at his home
town in Ogbadibo, stated that he was weeping for Benue people. According to him, he did not know how they will be able to endure another four years of torture and deprivation under Ortom. Onjeh said he was not sure if President Mohammadu Buhari would
release more bailout funds and Paris Club refunds to Benue in the next
four years since the ones released before had not been accounted for. He said he wept for Benue workers, pensioners and their families
because they went out enmass to vote out Ortom for nonpayment of
salaries and pensions. Onjeh  is also the Board Chairman, Project Development Agency (PRODA) “How long will the children of workers and pensioners in Benue be out
of school for lack of financial support from their incapacitated and
oppressed parents? “How long will Benue workers and pensioners endure this hunger and denial as a result of nonpayment of their wages?” “The painful side is that the same resources the workers and pensioners were denied, were the same Ortom used to buy votes.” Onjeh expressed surprise at the way PDP big shots in Benue, who
condemned Ortom’s governance style while he was in APC, made a U-turn to
support the same man they condemned. “I’m surprised at how David Mark, who accused Ortom of distribution
of wheelbarrows to Benue youths as the only project he has done, could
turn around and support the same Ortom to win second term in office.” “Suswam also accused Ortom of ballooning the wage bill when Ortom was
in APC but turned around to support him to win a second term in
office.” “Abba Moro also condemned Ortom and said that he failed woefully as
such, does not deserve a second term but turned around to support him
because he defected to their party.” “This flip-flap Politicians’ behavior shows that they are only
working for their own selfish purpose and not for the common good of the
masses as always portrayed,” Onjeh lamented. The former student unionist therefore, encouraged Mr Emmanuel Jime of
APC who contested against Ortom not to give up on the fight for his
mandate. Onjeh urged Jime to head to the tribunal, pointing out that he had
good grounds to do so since there were so many irregularities of rigging
and electoral malpractices in the conduct of the election. “I expected INEC to have cancelled the places where the use of Card Readers was even disregarded. “The places are Guma, Logo, Buruku, Ukum and Vandeikya local government areas.