By Joy Odigie Benin – Gov. Godwin Obaseki of Edo says his administration has commenced the installation of 1.5KVA solar power boxes across 100 rural schools in the state. Mr Crusoe Osagie, Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, who made the disclosure on Sunday in Benin, said the solar power boxes were developed by Green Fusion Energy Ltd. He said Green Fusion Energy Ltd was a company owned by youths that emerged from innovation and business grooming at the Edo Innovation Hub in the state. According to him, the installation of the solar boxes in rural schools across the state is a fulfillment of Obaseki’s pledge to the team after they impressed him during a pitch competition. “The solar boxes are being installed in 100 schools under the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) by Green Fusion engineers. “Fifty other youths are undergoing training in different communities where the boxes are being installed,” he said in a ststement. Osagie said the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Skills Development and Job Creation, Mrs Ukinebo Dare, had noted that the installation had been completed in Aibotise Primary School in Etsako West Local Government Area (LGA). She also said that installation was ongoing in Agbomoba Primary School, Agbomoba; and Abesi Primary School in Ovia South West LGA. “Other beneficiary schools include Aleye Primary School, Etsako Central LGA, Akugbe Primary School, Etsako Central LGA, Efolo Primary School, Akoko Edo LGA, Afekunu Primary School, Akoko Edo LGA, Agbanehumu Primary School, Akoko Edo LGA. “The rest are Abe Primary School, Orhionmwon LGA; Akengbuda Primary school, Urora in Ikpoba-Okha LGA; Akugbe Primary School, Ikpoba-Okha LGA; Adolor Primary School, Evboro; Binidodogha Primary School, Ovia South West LGA, and Aden River Primary School, Ovia South West LGA.” The Special Adviser added that Obaseki-led administration set up Edo Innovation Hub to attend to the yearnings of technology innovators in the state. He said the hub was also to provide opportunities for youths to co-create and develop solutions to local problems.