Peter Ferdinand Drucker, an Austrian-born American management consultant, educator, and author, whose writings contributed to the philosophical and practical foundations of the modern business corporation once described leadership as the “lifting of a person’s vision to high sights, the raising of a person’s performance to a higher standard, and the building of a personality beyond its normal limitations”. It seems Drucker had President Muhammadu Buhari in mind when he put together this definition because it cuts the exact picture of what our president represents. Anyone who has closely followed Nigeria’s politics and development in the last twenty years would agree that the since the emergence of Buhari in 2015, there has been a paradigm shift in the manner government business is being conducted. Of course, before ascending the presidency, Buhari had in his years in public service carved a niche for himself; raised his performance everywhere he served to an enviable standard, lifted his vision of a pan Nigerian leader and above all, built his personality based on integrity and zero tolerance for corruption. Today, everybody has come to agree that corruption is the number one enemy of Nigeria and most of our leaders both past and present are guilty of this uncontrolled malfeasance. But no one can lift a finger against Buhari to have helped himself from the nations till. No wonder, he is widely known as the Mai gaskiya, (meaning Mr. Integrity) by his teeming supporters, particularly the Talakawas. This is incontrovertible and even his acerbic critics cannot fault it. A member of the APC Presidential Campaign Council, Alhaji Murtala Mohammed had while welcoming a sociocultural and political interest group from the South eastern part of the country, Oganiru Ndigbo sometime before the election lent credence to this fact, when he said people are free to pass their assessments on the president the way they like but he remained an honest and sincere leader. “You can call him anything but the only thing you cannot call him is a thief. So they can continue giving him names because you can never be a leader without a challenge” he had said. Buhari is indeed one man whose legend will continue to awe Nigerians. The president is strict, unbending, prudent and incorruptible. He does not possess the flair of a politician nor the avuncular nature; he is blunt and says it as it is no matter whose ox is gored. He is one leader that can never trade his honesty for anything else. This explains why against all odds, 15, 191, 847 million Nigerians trooped to the polling units on February 23, to re-elect the president for a second term in office. This is against the president’s closest rival, and PDP’s Atiku Abubakar’s 11,262, 978, leaving a difference of almost 4 million votes; an improvement from the over two million vote’s gap he gave the then incumbent president in 2015. This has shown that the president’s acceptability rating has risen and is improving as he paddles the boat of Nigeria’s leadership. Now that the president has been confirmed for a second term, what is expected of Nigerians is massive support to the administration to consolidate on its laudable projects and initiatives that have once more return the country to a place of eminence in the comity of nations. There is no doubt that the President had leveraged his legendary integrity and acumen in managing resources both human and materials to reinvent governance. Any objective critic of the administration would submit that Buhari had delivered on the three campaign promises he made which were, fighting corruption, tackling insecurity and revamping the economy. It is axiomatic that today, under President Buhari, Nigerians can dream and hope because he has rebranded governance and put the country on the path of sustainable growth and development. The administration of Buhari had since 2015 been trying to correct the monumental flaws in our polity and within the last four years brought us out of a recession foisted upon us due to years of monumental failure in governance at the centre. Gradually but surely, the incumbent administration has focused on completing critical infrastructure projects across the country with particular focus on rail, agriculture, power, works and housing as well as the fight against insurgency and corruption amongst others. There is no doubt that Buhari’s government has made tremendous achievements in social investment programmes and this is the first time in a long while, Nigerians have returned to ferrying people, goods and services on our revamped railway routes with several others nearing completion like the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge line to be completed later this year. What about the intractable power problem, where Buhari has doubled power generation from 3,500 MW in 2015 to about 7,000 MW at the end of 2018. Buhari is investing in infrastructure and reinventing the most ambitious social programme in the history of the nation. The President is ensuring that the people do not loot the common resources and ensuring that Nigeria is self-sufficient in food production. Above all, he has brought honour and respect back to the country and fighting all sorts of insecurity in the country. It is now evident that Nigerians have chosen never to go back to the era of inefficiency, looting, decay in infrastructure but instead sided with the era of integrity, when the economy is being revived and insurgency is being tackled. The nation has never had it so good in terms of its potential to grow and really show what the country can do as its diversified economy that creates opportunities. The government has addressed the issue of tax and created the enabling environment by investments in infrastructure, which will allow people to take advantage of the government’s initiatives. The Buhari’s Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP), which was launched in April 2017, has stabilised the macroeconomic environment; achieved agricultural and food security and has also ensured energy efficiency especially in power and petroleum products. It also said the ERGP has improved transportation infrastructure and industrialisation primarily through the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). It is on record that no president has supported state government like the Buhari. Buhari has extended more than N1.9 trillion to state governments, to enable them meet their salary and pension obligations, especially in the face of dwindling oil revenues over the last two years. This support came in the form of Budget Support Facility (Total of N606.55 billion extended to the states as of May 2018; in exchange for reforms in budgeting, IGR, debt management, overheads, etc.) Others are Paris Club refunds, infrastructure loans as well as loan restructuring for facilities with commercial banks. Other economic related achievements include the Anchor Borrowers Scheme of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), which has substantially raised local production of rice in 2016. Buhari has also issued Executive Orders, which have greatly impacted on the ease of business. These Orders include the Executive Order on Improving Efficiency in the Business Environment, Executive Order on Promoting Local Procurement by Government Agencies and Executive Order on planning and execution of projects, promotion of Nigerian content in contracts and science, engineering and technology. Going into the second term, Buhari’s administration has over 70 ongoing projects that needed to be completed. And when completed, every Nigerian will heave a sigh of relief because this nation would have reclaimed its lost glory. The Buhari administration has demonstrated a single-minded commitment: to upgrading and developing Nigeria’s transport, power and health infrastructure. Just in May 2018, the federal government launched the Presidential Infrastructure Development Fund (PIDF), under the management of the Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority. Some of these critical projects include the second Niger Bridge, the Mambilla Plateau hydro projects and very important road projects across the 36 states of the federation. Already, Buhari has promised in his acceptance speech that he is set to run an all-inclusive government and given assurances to address unemployment, youth restiveness and to focus on the economy. These are the areas that touch the core of the nation and for electing to give them priority attention, all Nigerians irrespective of ethnicity, religion or social status should join hands together with the president and take our dear country to the next level. …Hon. Chinwe Ugwu, is the Executive Director, CREI and writes from Enugu.