…Military,Officials of  INEC Aided APC to Rob Us of Victory – Secondus By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post)
– The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has said it will
shock President Buhari and the ruling All Progressives Congress
(APC) with what it called “shocking revelations” at the
election petition tribunal. It
said that its decision to challenge President Buhari’s victory at the tribunal
was taken in the interest of the nation and not that the former ruling party
was embarking on what it called an academic exercise. Secondus,
who spoke with one of our correspondents, asked Nigerians to be patient, adding
that the team of lawyers put together by the party and Atiku were already
working hard to file their papers at the tribunal. He
said the PDP and Atiku would have conceded defeat if President Buhari had won
the February 23 presidential election fair and square. Secondus
insisted that the PDP and Atiku were robbed of their victory by the APC, which
he alleged, was aided by the military and the officials of the Independent
National Electoral Commission. Secondus
said, “We will shock both Buhari and the APC at the Presidential Election
Petitions Tribunal with facts and figures. We will also show videos and other
ways through which the APC, INEC and the military collaborated to rig the
election. “The
world and the entire country will see the details of what happened. We will
reveal what they never believed we saw. “No
need to take issue with them. They (APC) claimed that they have evidence of
fraud allegedly committed by the PDP as well. We will wait for them to come up
with their lies. “Unfortunately
for them, the courts are not where propaganda will sway facts. Let them come
with propaganda, we will hit them with facts and figures.” Asked
when the party and the candidate would file their papers, Secondus said, “The
Electoral Act stipulates that. We will beat the time. So, don’t be in a hurry.” We
will make documents available to all parties – INEC Meanwhile,
INEC has promised not to take sides in the expected legal battle, saying that
it will make documents available to all parties if called upon to do so. But
the commission also said that it would defend its actions during the elections. The
INEC National Commissioner and chairman of its Information and Voter Education
Committee, Mr Festus Okoye, stated this in an interview with one of our
correspondents. Asked
how prepared the commission was concerning the plan by Atiku and the PDP to go
to court, he said the commission was not a political party and would not take a
partisan posture in relation to the election petitions tribunal. Okoye
said, “The Independent National Electoral Commission is empowered to organise,
conduct and supervise elections. The commission is not a political party and
does not take a partisan posture in relation to election petitions. “The
commission is the regulator of political parties and the law and the
constitution has delineated the jurisdiction of election petitions tribunal and
the conditions for activating its jurisdiction. “The
commission conducted the Presidential and National Assembly elections on the
February 23, 2019 and the Chief Electoral Commissioner of Nigeria and the
Returning Officer for the Presidential election, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, declared
the incumbent President as the winner of the election and declared him as duly
elected. “The
commission organised a relatively peaceful election and complied substantially
with the intendment of the constitution and the law. “However, it is the
constitutional and statutory right of every aggrieved candidate to approach
either the National and state Houses of Assembly Election Petitions Tribunal
which has the original and exclusive jurisdiction to determine whether any
person was validly elected to the National Assembly or the Court of Appeal
which has original jurisdiction to hear and determine any question as to
whether any person has been validly elected to the office of the President or
Vice-President under the constitution. “INEC
will defend the outcome of the election it conducted if it is served with
processes from the tribunals or the Court of Appeal. “The
commission will make available all documents used in the conduct of elections
to petitioners and respondents if the proper application is made and the
processes and procedure for the application are followed. “The
commission has almost completed the reverse logistics in relation to the
Presidential and National Assembly elections and the documents used in the
conduct of the elections are in safe custody in the various offices of the
commission.” Okoye
added that the commission must purge the smart card readers and reconfigure
them for the conduct of the governorship and state Houses of Assembly
elections. This,
he said, would not affect any petition by either political parties or
individuals before the tribunal. He
said, “What petitioners need are the data from the smart card readers which
will be available to petitioners and respondents. “Petitioners
and respondents are assured that the commission will be professional and
ethical in the handling of election petitions. “The
commission will not take issue with any political party but will respond to and
investigate concrete allegations backed by evidence and not general allegations
made without any shred of evidence.” By Abbas Bamalli Kano - The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kano State has rejected… The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has announced the final Presidential election results recorded in… PDP has rejected the results of last Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections being announced…