By Chibuike Nwabuko
Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has cautioned those who are against former Vice President Atiku Abubakar’s decision to seek redress in court over alleged rigging of the 2019 presidential election, as doing so may lead to violence.
According to Obasanjo, “Those who have conceived and are promoting the narrative that if Atiku Abubakar continues to seek legal redress there will be violence are evil minds looking for excuse to unleash violence on Nigerians.
“Those who call themselves our (Nigeria’s) development partners and friends and preach sacrificing justice on the altar of so-called stability are enemies of justice, democracy and Nigeria.”
In a statement issued by him on Saturday from Dubai, the former President reminded that, at no time in history has sustainable peace been built on theft, injustice, corruption and inequity. 
Obasanjo Insisted that these merchants of chaos and violence should have no place in any decent society, adding that, “they must know that no intimidation or prophesy of violence and doomsday will cow anybody.”
Obasanjo, who said he has refrained from commenting on the 2019 elections because one of the parties has gone to court, reiterated that Nigeria belongs to all Nigerians, that “we will respect as friends, those who believe that what is good for their country should be good for Nigeria
“Yes, we are Africans but we have values that are consistent with international standards and court is part of our democratic process and it must be used when necessary if only to achieve justice, stability unity and progress for our country.”
He continued, “If Buhari could go to court three times to seek justice, even without reasonable cause, any Nigerian who feels denied of justice must feel free to go to court.”
He emphasised that “we will continue to sustain Nigeria in stability and unity on the altar of justice, equity, fairness, freedom, human rights and democracy. Stability cannot be successfully built on injustice, corruption, inequity, and divided nation and incompetence, despotism, and one-sidedness” . 
Obasanjo noted that Nigeria will match forward with or without those who will want to feed us with diet of values and actions that are not acceptable in their own countries. Nigeria is of age, he maintained.
The former President and elder statesman gave the reply while commending Osun State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal for its courage in nullifying what he said was clearly an illegality that took place in the state in 2018.
According to Obasanjo, the action by the judicial officers, albeit a first step in the legal process, gives renewed confidence in the judiciary at a time when there are coordinated efforts by some political leaders to undermine , if not destroy it.
Obasanjo, who stated this in a letter he personally signed, dated 23 March, said he received the news of the Osun State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal’s judgement while in Dubai attending the Global Education and Skill Forum Meeting.
The former president, who reminded that the world is watching us, informed that what we do or do not do right in our electoral process will have implications not just for Nigeria but for Africa and indeed the world. 
He further said that by correcting what was clearly a desperate attempt to change the will of the Osun peole, the tribunal has saved Nigeria from great embarrassment and started the process of saving and strengthening our democracy.