The 2019 presidential elections may have come and gone, but the effects
will be felt in Nigeria for a very long time.  Apart from the 2007
general elections, the 2019 presidential elections is presently regarded
as the worst in the nation’s history by a lot of Nigerians. The
question on the mind of majority of Nigerians is, how can an electoral
process that witnessed the highest amount of voter registration with
over 80m registered voters, voters card collection with nearly 73
million eligible voters and an election that was predicted to be the
biggest in Africa’s history witness the lowest turnout in our nation’s
electoral history according to data from INEC. Turnout was just above 35
percent of eligible voters. I am forced to ask, how can an
election that recorded the highest number of first time voters now be
seen as having the lowest turnout of voters in the nation’s history?
From my perspective, it is either INEC did not disclose the original
results of the election in other to favour the winner of the election or
Nigerians are fed up with the country. But how true can this be when
the nation saw an increase in voter awareness, more persons registered
to vote and more voters’ card were collected. All available evidence is
clearly pointing to the fact that the results of the elections were
doctored in favour of President Muhammadu Buhari. How can Yobe state, a
state that is facing serious security challenges, a state where the
governor was not even allowed to vote due to security issues experience a
high voter turnout over Enugu State, a state without security issues?
Does it mean that despite the serious security challenges facing Yobe
State and many other states with security challenges, the INEC voter’s
education directorate did more in the face of these numerous security
challenges in these states and did less in places that enjoy a more
peaceful environment? Well, I will leave these questions to Prof Yakubu
Mahmood to answer as he alone can provide credible answers to them. The
governorship and state house of assembly election proved beyond all
reasonable doubt that Nigerians have lost hope with the electoral
umpire. Turnout, when officially confirmed, is likely to be the lowest
in our nation’s history. But did we expect any thing different after the
sham presidential election on February 23? Former Vice President Atiku
Abubakar after casting his vote last Saturday, noted that he is
concerned, like millions that his vote may likely not count. A picture
that has since gone viral on social media shows a ballot paper for the
governorship election with a write-up by a voter: “Fuck INEC, just rig”. When
a people’s mandate is stolen, it is bound to have repercussions and the
9th of March, 2019 governorship election is the beginning of such for
Nigeria. The fastest way to destroy a democratic process is to make the
people lose faith in its electoral process and INEC under the leadership
of Prof Mahmood Yakubu has clearly done this. Nigerians no longer have
faith in its electoral process, and this is bad for a country trying to
build its democratic institutions. In most states, especially in the
FCT, unlike the presidential election that witnessed a huge turnout of
voters, most polling units were empty with no voter in sight many hours
after INEC officials arrived with voting materials. The big question
begging for answer is, “Could this be the end of Nigeria’s democracy?”
Only time and the judiciary will tell. The Presidential election
has only succeeded in dividing Nigeria along ethnic lines the more, the
Igbos are crying persecution and just recently, a serving senator and
wife of the national leader of the APC, Remi Tinubu was caught on camera
telling a disabled Igbo man that those of his ethnic group cannot be
trusted. What is democracy if I cannot be allowed to vote for who I
want? The 2019 general elections conducted by Prof Mahmood Yakubu’s led
INEC will be remembered for further dividing the country rather than
uniting it. On Forensic With the court of appeal granting
the PDP’s presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar his request to be giving
access to the materials used for the presidential elections, it is
surprising that the court will turn down Atiku’s request to engage
forensic experts to check for multiple thumb printing claiming that the
Electoral Act does not give provision for such when the Act allowed Rauf
Aregbeshola to use same in 2007 and Kayode Fayemi just last year. Do we
have different electoral Acts for the state and for the federal? Justice
must not only be said to be done, it must be seen to be done and that
is what the judiciary must do. Nigeria is standing on a time bomb and
members of judiciary must put aside all forms of personal interests to
save our nation. This is not about Buhari or Atiku; it is about the
survival of our nation. If things are allowed to go the way they are, we
may not have a Nigeria in 2023. •Odoh Michael, media consultant and public affairs analyst wrote from Abuja and can be reached via dohmike2000@yahoo.com