By Olayinka Olawale Lagos – The Management of Yaba College of Technology has inaugurated a diagnostic section of its Medical Centre to provide improved medical services to students. The Rector of the College, Mr Obafemi Omokungbe, said at the
inauguration of the section on Wednesday that the centre was equipped
with modern medical facilities. Omokungbe listed the facilities to include Hematology Analyzer,
Chemistry Analyzer, Genotype Machine, X-Ray Machine with a bigger
capacity to cope with students registration needs, Automatic Processor
and Blood Mixer. He said that the centre was equipped to align with the new status of
the medical centre – a healthcare service provider under the National
Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS). He added that the college had begun T-ship programmes with three Health Management Organisations (HMOs) in place for students. According to him, the college also has a partnership arrangement with
the Military Hospital, Yaba, and the Lagos University Teaching Hospital
(LUTH). The centre is expected to improve the quality of healthcare to both
staff and students including other users that may have chosen the
college as their healthcare service provider. The rector said the centre was by its status open to the general public after the commissioning. “On assumption of duty as rector, the medical centre was one of the units I visited, precisely on March 13, 2018. “This was because adequate medical services for everyone, particularly the students was a major concern. “On that visit, it was discovered that the medical centre needed
priority attention with respect to provision of improved medical
services in the areas of supply of drugs, completion of the diagnostic
centre and provision of basic medical facilities. “Also required was the proper conclusion of arrangement to commence the T-ship programme. “Today, the T-ship programmes has fully commenced with three Health Management Organisations (HMOs) in place for students. “We have a partnership arrangement with the Military Hospital, Yaba,
as well as the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, (LUTH),” the rector
said. Omokungbe said supply of drugs has been regular thus, the days of no drugs in the medical centre was over. He added that qualified and experienced staff have been recruited,
though majority on part-time basis as a result of due process required
for the employment of personnel as introduced by the Federal Government. “The diagnostic centre has been brought to a functional state with
the provision of all outstanding facilities and equipment; thus the
reason why we are gathered here. “A standby generator has been provided to ensure adequate power supply to the centre,” he said. Omokungbe commended the Medical Director of the centre, for working
tirelessly with his team to ensure that the project become a reality. “If well managed, the centre will be another source of revenue which
will sustain the medical centre and on the long run, the college. “In the very near future, the centre will be expanded to meet the needs of the environment and beyond,” he said.