By Florence Onuegbu Lagos – The Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) has warned motorists to avoid dangerous driving and always ensure they drive within the approved speed limit. The General Manager, LASEMA, Mr Adesina Tiamiyu, also urged motorists to always obey all road signs. Tiamiyu urged motorists to be vigilant and look ahead for any obstruction and activities of other road users. According to him, this is to avoid any unfortunate incident that may
lead to unnecessary injuries and loss of lives on Lagos roads. He said that the warning was due to the accident that occurred during
the early hours of Tuesday, March 5, on the Oshodi/Apapa Expressw00ay. “An articulated gas truck said to be on speed rammed into another stationary articulated containerised truck. ”This resulted to an accident which could ordinarily be avoided, if
necessary safety and road traffic rules were strictly adhered to by the
motorists. ”The agency received the distressed alert at about 7:09a.m via the
emergency toll free line 112/767 regarding the accident on the
Oshodi/Apapa Expressway, after Cele Bus Stop, inward Mile 2 on March 5,
2019. ”This prompted the immediate activation of the LASEMA’s Response Team (LRT) and other responders to the scene of the incident. ”Preliminary investigation carried out on arrival at the scene of the
incident revealed that driver of an articulated gas truck said to be on
speed, suddenly lost control and rammed into a containerised truck
parked by the side of the road. ”No live was lost, but three persons sustained different degrees of injuries. “One of the victims was rushed to an unknown hospital before the arrival of the LRT at the scene,” he said in a statement. The LASEMA general manager said that the other two victims that were
trapped, were rescued alive with the aid of the agency’s extrication
equipment. He said that they were attended to by the agency’s Paramedic and the
Lagos State Ambulance Service (LASAMBUS) before being moved to the
Trauma Centre for further medical treatment. Tiamiyu added that the articulated trucks involved in the incident
were immediately recovered with the help of the agency’s Supper Metro
towing truck, to restore normalcy and free vehicular movement around the
axis. “The Agency’s Response Team, LASAMBUS, Lagos State Fire Service,
Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Nigerian Security and
Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and Nigeria Police from Okota Division all
responded to the incident,” he said. The general manager, however, noted that the Police and other
security operatives would carry out further investigations to assertion
the remote causes of the unfortunate incident. (NAN)