By Nathan Nwakamma Explosion Yenagoa – Aiteo Exploration Ltd, operator of the 97 kilometre Nembe Creek Trunk Line (NCTL), has confirmed there is no loss of life in Friday’s explosion on the crude export pipeline. Aiteo officials said that the fire from the explosion, which burned till Saturday, had been put out without loss of life. The NCTL situation, with a capacity of conveying 150,000 barrels of
crude daily to the Bonny oil export terminal, will adversely affect
crude export, having been put out of use. A Public Relations Manager of Aiteo, Mr Ndiana-Abasi Mathew,
confirmed the incident to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in a phone
message on Saturday. “There is no official statement at the moment but I can gladly inform
you that the fire has been contained and no lives were lost,” Mathew
said. NAN learnt that the oil export line was shut for emergency repairs
following a leak when the incident occurred and discharged residual
crude and gas trapped in the pipeline. Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC), in 2015, divested its
equity in OML 29 and transferred its interest in NCTL for $1.7 bn to
Aiteo, an indigenous Oil and Gas Exploration and Production firm. Community sources at Nembe in Bayelsa have bemoaned negative impact
of the explosion, saying that the incident led to both gas leakage and
oil spill, compelling them to flee. Spokesperson of the Nembe Chiefs Council, Chief Nengi James–Eriworio,
who confirmed the development, said the explosion caused massive
destruction of the area with air and water heavily polluted. “People have deserted the area and the company has refused to respond
in spite of series of emergency calls to report the incident to them “As at early morning of Saturday, the fire is still raging. And with
gas and crude leak flowing freely, you can then imagine the fate of our
people. “The poor response of Aiteo to this incident is not acceptable and
questionable. The people are traumatised and their health put at risk ”
James-Eriworio said. Accoring to him, oil leak from the line has covered the surface of
the nearby river, making it unsafe for navigation and artisanal fishing
vocation of the people. James-Eriworio also appealed to the Federal Government and oil
industry regulatory agencies to intervene and investigate and respond,
to salvage the people. “We are concerned that Aiteo, despite the clandestine acquisition of
the asset from SPDC without due consultation with the people, has
continued to undermine the economic rights of the people. “We are worried about the poor response and attitude of the company towards the host communities in Nembe. “They have abused the rights of the people. We are ready to drag the
company before the National Assembly and the Presidency,”
James-Eriworio, said. The explosion, which occurred at about 4 a.m. on Friday near Oil Well 7, sacked members of the affected communities. The Nembe communities affected include Nembe creek 1, 2 and 3,
Jalungo, Fatuo and Kalablomi in Nembe Local Government Area of Bayelsa.
(NAN) By Edith Ike- Eboh Abuja - The Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation says it has no… By Pulse Davido, the real ‘Omo Baba Olowo’, (OBO), is now set to stake a… London - Saudi Aramco’s chief executive said on Tuesday the oil industry is facing “a…