By Chinyere Joel-Nwokeoma Lagos – Shareholders of Access Bank Plc and Diamond Bank Plc on Tuesday unanimously approved the merger of both financial institutions aimed at creating a formidable force. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the shareholders gave
the approval at an Extraordinary General Meetings (EGMs) of both banks
held in Lagos. Mr Herbert Wigwe, Access Bank Chief Executive Officer, told the
shareholders at the EGM that the merger with Diamond Bank enables Access
Bank to acquire a bank with 17 million retail customers and the most
viable mobile payment platform. Wigwe said that the expected revenue and cost synergies were material and promises significant long term value. Wigwe said the bank, after the merger, would attract more opportunities such as trade finance from international partners. “With the final merger of both banks and the status of the resulting
entity as ‘the largest bank in Africa’s largest economy,’ this greatly
bolsters the bank’s brand, opening doors of opportunity both in local
and international markets,” he said. Wigwe said the merger was expected to produce the largest banking
group in Africa based on its number of customers with more than 29
million customers. “The resulting entity which will maintain the brand name Access Bank,
but with Diamond Bank colors, will have more than 29 million customers,
13 million of which are mobile customers,” he said. Wigwe said the bank would be a continental force with presence in 12 countries, 3,100 ATMS and nearly 32, 000 Point of Sale. “As a continental financial force, it is set to attract more
opportunities such as trade finance from international partners seeking
multinational lenders with local intelligence,” he said. He said Diamond bank merging with “Access Bank also means, the
former’s customers can enjoy access to the latter’s strong balance
sheet, ubiquitous presence and solid operational structure.” “Diamond Bank has formidable retail business with the largest retail
customer base in Nigeria – over 17 million customers. Diamond Bank also
has a track record of customer acquisition and low cost liabilirties
generation. “The enlarged Access Bank will serve 27 million retail customers,
almost double the number customers of any other bank in Nigeria and more
than any other bank in Africa, “ Wigwe said. He noted that the enlarged Access Bank’s breath scale and product
range will further accelerate the financial inclusion agenda that Access
Bank and Diamond Bank had pursued separately. Wigwe, however, assured enlarged shareholders of the bank that dividend would be more robust and consistent after the exercise. Mr Adebayo Adeleke of Independent Shareholders Association (ISAN)
commended the management of Access Bank for not shortchanging
shareholders on the scheme of the merger. “Quiet a lot of commendable things have been put in place and we hope
court will have no other reason not to agree on the merger,” Adeleke
said. Adeleke said that the shareholders were in support of the plan that would give birth to one of the largest bank in Africa. “We are here to make sure we sanction this wedding and hope to see a marriage of a formidable force,” he said. He said that shareholders would want to see the birth and growth of
new bank that would take challenges and takeover the entire world. To the President, Trusted Shareholders’ Association of Nigeria
(TSAN), Alhaji Muktar Muktar, “we thank Access Bank for saving us from
Diamond Bank by giving us a good deal. Muktar said that the bank gave them the best deal which was above Diamond Bank price on the Nigerian Stock Exchange. Sir Sunny Nwosu, National Coordinator (Emeritus), ISAN, who also
commended Access Bank for the merger, called for special dividend to
cushion the effects of dilution on shareholders. Nwosu said integration would not be a problem for Access Bank because it had managed many “marriages” in the past. (NAN) By Philip Dzeremo Makurdi - The Tor Sankera, Chief Abu King-Shuluwa, has lauded the management… HARARE - Zimbabwe’s Reserve Bank has borrowed $985 million from African banks to purchase fuel… OWERRI - First Bank Nigeria Plc has handed over the renovated multi-million naira lecture theatre hall to the authorities…