By Emmanuel Mogbede Abuja – Mr Yekini Nabena, a Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC),has called on the party’s national leadership to set up mechanisms for the zoning and selection of preferred principal officers for the incoming 9th National  Assembly. He made the call in a statement on Saturday in Abuja, adding that
this was critical to avoiding a repeat of the political crisis that
followed the election of the National Assembly leadership in 2015. He said that the National Assembly was a strategic arm of government
to achieve the APC’s change agenda for the country and should therefore,
not be led by persons who would sabotage government’s efforts. “I call on the party’s leadership to urgently set up mechanisms for
the zoning and selection of our preferred principal officers who will
join the President Muhammadu Buhari administration in implementing our
change agenda. “Aside being president, Buhari is a respected father figure among party members and supporters. “His direct involvement and views will be very important as the party
works around the zoning and selection arrangements for principal NASS
officers,” Nabena said. He advised that President Buhari should play a leading  role in the
APC’s internal selection arrangement for the incoming 9th National
Assembly. “The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has lost the presidential
election and they have now adopted a plan B from their infamous Dubai
strategy meeting. “The plan is to hijack the incoming National Assembly leadership by repeating their heinous coup in the previous Assembly. “The APC must prevent a repeat of a situation where despite our
overwhelming majority in the outgoing 8th Senate and House of
Representatives, its leadership was hijacked by saboteurs and their
opposition PDP collaborators,” he said. He recalled how the outgoing 8th National Assembly under Dr Bukola
Saraki as the President of the Senate, sabotaged the present
administration in pursuit of selfish political interests of the PDP. Nabena noted that but for the principled, focussed and dogged
governance of President Buhari, many of the unprecedented development
achievements recorded would have been completely sabotaged. (NAN) By George Odok Calabar - The Cross River Chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC) has…  The All Progressives Congress (APC) National Working Committee (NWC) has suspended Governors Ibikunle Amosun of…