By Anita Eboigbe Abuja, – Dubai’s Department of Tourism and Commerce Marketing (Dubai Tourism) has reiterated its aim to further strengthen partnerships with public and private industry stakeholders in Africa. Organisers of the Dubai Tourism reaffirmed this at the Nigerian leg
of its West African road show held at the NAF Conference Centre in Abuja
on Monday. The road show was part of the ongoing efforts to increase visitor
growth and promote tourism by Nigerian tourists to Dubai, especially
with its continued record-breaking growth rates and a successful 2018 in
the tourism sphere. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that a total of 27 Dubai-based
delegates participated in the event, along with local partners in the
tourism sphere. The road show highlighted to key travel partners, the many diverse
experiences that Dubai has to offer including accommodation,
entertainment, travel and events in the city. In addition to this, the event included breakout-networking sessions
for partner presentations, one-on-one meetings, an update on Expo 2020,
educational sessions and enrollment into the Dubai Expert Certification
Program. Mrs. Olufolake Abdulrazaq, wife of Kwara state governor-elect speaking at the event (Source:NAN) Fahad Al Taffaq, Ambassador of the UAE to Nigeria emphasized the importance of Dubai Tourism and Nigeria relations. Taffaq stated that the road show was an effective way to
geographically and culturally bridge the East and the West while
strengthening already existing relationships between industry
stakeholders. His Excellency Fahad Al Taffaq, Ambassador of the UAE to Nigeria speaking at the event (Source: NAN) Meanwhile, the Director of International Operations for Dubai
Department of Tourism and Commerce Marketing, Mrs. Stella Fubara, led
the delegates in a full day of presentations and engagement. Apart from the various local tourism industry representatives at the
event, special guests in attendance included incoming First Lady of
Kwara State, Mrs. Olufolake Abdulrazaq; and Chairman of Dantata Group,
Alhaji Tajuddeen Dantata. The road show held in Abuja was the first of three stops in Nigeria,
as the event will also hold in Port Harcourt on March 20 and Lagos on
March 22.