By Kabir Muhammad Abuja – The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) says it will sanction the developer and owner of plot no 896 Cad Zone, A03, Garki II, Abuja, that collapsed on Tuesday, March 5. The Coordinator, Abuja Metropolitan Management Council (AMMC), Mr
Umar Shuaibu, said this on Wednesday in Abuja while briefing newsmen on
the interim report on the collapsed building. He said that from the preliminary investigation it was discovered
that the developer went beyond the scope of work detailed in the
redecoration order issued to him. According to reports, a whole portion of No 3 Onitsha Crescent plot 896, Cad Zone Garki II, Abuja, collapsed on March 5. Though no life was lost in the incident, the plot was said to be allocated to one Mr Kilimanjaro Nigeria Limited, in 1994. “Decommissioning of part of the existing building affected the
structural components of the building and excavation of column bases for
the erection of unapproved structure. “The developer hoarded the premises to prevent access and conceal the ongoing works. “Sudden crumbles of the structure may also signify an over load on
the structural members exceeding its ultimate loading capacity as a
result of the replacement of building elements that are heavier than the
existing ones before operation,’’ he said. Shuaibu said from the preliminary investigation, the presumed cause
of the collapse were: overload on the structural members exceeding its
ultimate loading capacity. “This weakened the building elements and rusting of the steel members
as a result of plumbing leakages and carbonation respectively. “Also the building had been abandoned for some years. “The developer will be sanctioned for undertaking a major renovation
work without seeking approval from the Development Control Department
and exceeding the scoop of work issued to him for minor redecoration. “From now on integrity test will be conducted on aged buildings in
and around the city metropolis so as to enable us identify which
building should be reconstructed or rehabilitated,’’ he said. He explained that further investigation would be conducted on the building. He warned that developers must ensure that all abandoned structures
for three years and above are tested before commencement of development
or face sanction. (NAN) Prague - A 34-year-old man has been killed by his privately owned lion in the… By Chinyere Omeire Lagos - An Igbosere High Court in Lagos State, on Monday, fixed May… By Kabir Muhammad Abuja - The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) on Wednesday. inaugurated a…