By Emmanuel Oloniruha Abuja – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said the smart card readers (SCRs) are mandatory in Saturday’s governorship and State Houses of Assembly elections. Mr. Festus Okoye, INEC National Commissioner, and Chairman
Information and Voter Education Committee stated this on Tuesday in
Abuja. Okoye said the clarification was important going by allegations since
the conduct of the Feb. 23, Presidential and National Assembly
elections that INEC was selective in its use of smart card readers in
its conduct of the elections. He said that those allegations had led to speculations that INEC may
be forced to jettison the use of SCRs in the state and federal capital
area council elections. “INEC hereby states categorically that the allegations are absolutely
false and the speculations are without any basis whatsoever. “The use of the smart card readers is not only mandatory but its
deliberate non use attracts the sanction of possible prosecution of
erring officials in accordance with the INEC Regulations and Guidelines
for the conduct of elections. “This is in addition to the voiding of any result emanating from such
units or areas, as was done in the presidential and national assembly
elections of February 23. “The general public and all officials engaged for the elections are
hereby informed that the commission is not reconsidering the use of
these smart card readers which has greatly improved the credibility of
our elections and instilled a high level of public trust in them. “To clear any doubt or ambiguity, we wish to state that the
deployment and mandatory use of SCRs in next Saturday’s elections will
not only be uniformed but also universal, and the provisions of the
regulations and guidelines will be strictly and vigorously enforced. “All Stakeholders are to note and be guided accordingly please,” Okoye said.(NAN) By Christian Ogbonna Yenagoa - The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Bayelsa, has appealed… By Abujah Racheal  Abuja - The Independent National Electoral Commission’s (INEC) Cross Rivers State Collation Officer,… By Mohammed Ahmed Kaigama Bauchi - Ahead of the March 9 Governorship and State Houses…