UP FROM THE GRAVE It must be Easter. A party many called dead resurrecting like this? It must be Easter. When a few of us continued to support PDP unwaveringly, many thought we were crazy. Before Jonathan lost, they said we were paid to support him. After he lost and even semi retired from politics, our support remained unflinching. And people ran out of words to aay why our support was so staunch. Many dissipated energy insulting Jonathan, attacking PDP and calling them an unserious party. Many vacillated hoping APC will reach out to them. Many went to APC. But I knew a party that backed an Ijaw man and minority to its detriment is the party that stands for the NATION. Such stances in support of a minority gets backlash from the majority but that backlash fades as parties that think of the small and represent them get their loyalty forever and will win back those who leave while forever keeping the small as base. This played out in the US. White backlash followed the Democratic party for presenting a black Obama. But with the unprecedented numbers the House went democratic and the many states flipped back to Democrats and with how the rust belt states Trump won are flipping blue, it is clear the party that spreads its tentacles will win the argument in the long run. APC thinks is it the majority party now. But it is Pyrrhic victory and faux calculation. When two whole regions of the South South and South East voted PDP en masse.. losing two regions so totally cannot bode well for APC. Soon APC would struggle to see 1/3 i. 2/3 states. That is a disaster waiting to happen. And in the West, two main states are going PDP. And more would have gone PDP but for rigging and Tinubu’s bullion van when PDP people with as much money cannot buy volks wagen beetle and support Atiku or dash supporters for fear of Buhari and EFCC. Even the North East voted in two PDP governors and Sokoto in the North West, the state considered SEAT OF POWER goes PDP, APC should be very scared as a brand. The truth is APC was REJECTED in waves. But for the rigging as well as Buhari’s somewhat continued popularity in that North… scratch that. But for the massive rigging and threats and arm-twisting and bullying of opposition members, for over four years and especially election period, but for the fear put in the heart of the Akpabios that had to decamp and many more who could not now be as PDP as they wanted for fear of EFCC, Buhari would have fallen flat on his face. In all, Nigeria is not a one party state. Each party will bring out popular candidates in 2023 or lose. They will rule well or lose. Even people like me have put PDP DELTA ON NOTICE. They rule well or we will finally give another party a chance. APC must be running scared. God and Buhari’s health will not put him on the ballot (not your constitution as he would have continued and manufactured a third term.) It is God and health vs Buhari. And without Buhari on the ballot, who can challenge a PDP with Kwankwaso and Tambuwal on the same side? That is the street (Kwankwaso) and elite/Royalty (Tambuwal) of the North combined. So who can challenge them? El Rufai? hahaha. Ribadu? hohohoho. Without Buhari, you will all witness how weak El Rufai is. Truth is Tinubu gambled on Buhari and lost most Yorubas and all of Niger Delta and Igbo land. A friend to our enemy is our enemy. And so PDP Lives and Thrives May these PDP states know peace and progress. May these governors rule these states better than at any time in the state and Nigeria’s history. May God raise new Lateef Jakandes And Ambrose Alli and Sam Ogbemudia in these PDP states. May corruption not blind them again and make them overlook Nigeria’s anger at them as displayed in 2015. May they not take Nigerians for granted. Buhari’s terrible leadership is what has given PDP this new lease of life. They must let the party BREATHE and not let wizards and witches with brooms sweep them out of power again. Up from the grave PDP arose
With a mighty triumph o’er its foes