By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Ahead of March 23 supplementary
election in some states, YIAGA Africa has made 5 recommendations on how the
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) would ensure electoral transparency. YIAGA AFRICA Watching the Vote made the recommendation on
Friday at a press conference in Abuja. It made the recommendation following its
observed loopholes and observations recorded during the March 9 governorship
and state assembly elections. The group which does not want the reoccurrence of some of
the mistakes in the past, also frowned at the judicial interference with the
electoral process and maintains that : “INEC should make public the data on the number of PVC
collected in the affected polling units and share same with the stakeholders
and also t it on its online and offline media platforms. YIAGA AFRICA advised INEC to ensure accurate and timely
deployment of election materials to affected polling units on Election Day. It reminded that these supplementary elections were occasioned
by the non-use of card readers or failure to deploy them to affected polling
units. YIAGA AFRICA therefore called on INEC to insist on electronic accreditation
of voters using the Smart Card Readers and PVC. YIAGA AFRICA aslo called on INEC to strengthen its oversight
on the electoral process, especially the results collation process in view of
the contentious nature of the electuons in some states. Stressing that there
should be strict compliance with the regulatuons and guidelines for the
elections. It urged the commission to ensure timely reversal of guidelines in
cases where its officials misapply such guidelines and communicate its decision
in a timely manner. Adding that electoral officers who who deliberaytely disregard
electoral guidelines should be sanctioned appropriately. The group called for the utilization of INEC’s online and ofline
medua platforms  in sharing information
with the public  and to also maintain periodic
briefing with election stakeholders on the election at both state and national
levels. YIAGA AFRICA called on Nigerians, who are the biggest
stakeholders in this election to turm out in their numbers and cast their votes
by properly thumbprinting to reduce the number of rejected /invalid votes as
withnessed in previous elections. Sundiata Post reminds that YIAGA AFRICA Watching the Vote
will deploy 258 duly trained stationary observers and 6 roving observers in
Saturday’s (tomorrow’s) elction to observe the conduct of the supplementary
elections in the affected polling units and states. It will also deploy result
collation centre observers to the 97 LGA and state result collation centres.