…Says INEC’s Poor Data and Information
dissemination Cause of Confusion as to states and polling units where rerun
governorship elections will be conducted By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – YIAGAAFRICA on Friday condemned the
judicial interference with electoral process, particularly the manner some
judges have granted applications without recourse to judicial precedent and
extant laws. It made the condemnation on Friday in a statement signed by
the chairman, Dr Hussaini Abdu and Executive Direcctor, Samson Itodo made
available to newsmen in Abuja. The group observed with dismay how political parties have
resorted to procuring court injunctions to restrain INEC from concluding the
elections in states like Adamawa and Bauchi. It recalled how
Justice Abdulaziz Waziri of the Adamawa State High Court issued an injunction
restraining INEC from conducting rerun elections in Adamawa following an
application by the Movement for Restoration and Defence of Democracy (MRDD), a
political party that never presented a candidate in the main election. Similarly, Justice Inyang Ekwo of Federal High Court in
Abuja also issued an order restraining INEC from continuing with the collation
of results in Bauchi state based on an ex parte motion initiated by the All
Progressive Congress (APC) and its candidate Mohammed Abubakar. YIAGA AFRICA inforemed that this emerging trend undermines
democratic institutions like INEC and could dampen citizens confidence in the
judiciary. It therefore called on the National Judicial Council (NJC)
to, without further delay, caution members of the bench to refrain from
interfering with the electoral process through the issuance of questionable
orders and injunctions. In a similar vein, YIAGA AFRICA has alleged that INEC’s INEC’s
poor data management and dissemination of information is responsible for the
confusion and misinformation in public domain with respect to states and
polling units where rerun governorship elections will be conducted. This it believes
may affect turnout of voters for the supplementary elections. YIAGA AFRICA therefore reiterated that openness and
transparency are a pre-requisite for boosting stakeholder confidence in the
electoral process. On the issue of Security during the supplementary election,YIAGA AFRICA said it has received
reports of heavy deployment of security personnel to the states with governorship
rerun elections. It however advised that security deployment for elections
should be commiserates with level of threats.