I
was flabbergasted and outraged after reading the reports emanating from
the CCT trial of CJN Walter Onnoghen—I deliberately omitted the word
“suspended” because he remains the Chief Justice of Nigeria in the eyes
of the law; until CONSTITUTIONALLY removed from office. I was astonished
at the emptiness of the prosecuting (persecuting) counsel. The three
prosecuting witnesses called out of the six penciled down to testify,
actually exonerated the accused—going by their testimonies; to uttermost
chagrin of most Nigerians. The castle of satanic propaganda built
against the nation’s number one judicial officer in the last few months
by the APC’s sponsored ideologically perverted spin-doctors and morally
bankrupt hirelings, was dynamited in less than 90 minutes. The volcanic
mountain of falsehood constructed against this judicial veteran, erupted
in the face of incontrovertible truths embodied in facts presented. It
became crystal clear again that the lifespan of a propaganda is shorter
than falsehood.  The
litany of false narratives planted in the media began crumbling like
pack of cards. The so-called 55 houses allegedly owned by Justice Walter
Onnoghen suddenly fell to five — one house out of the five was given to
him by the government — making it four properties acquired through his
hard-earned money. Millions of dollars and billions of naira shameless
propagandists and online urchins of this government told the whole world
that CJN Onnoghen had in his accounts, melted into thousands of
dollars. It metamorphosed into figment of imagination borne out of
hallucination. It was established right there in full public glare that
he operates domiciliary accounts in Nigeria not “foreign”, as was
propagated by conscienceless men and women of perfidy in the APC. Even
the assets declaration forms were confirmed unverified as at the time
the charges were filed. And this was confessed by no other person than
an ex-director of Code of Conduct Bureau; who worked in the bureau for
29 consecutive years! While
these puzzling and thought-provoking revelations were being unraveled
at the CCT, social media rabble-rousers and demented e-rats who ignobly
pervades cyberspace cluelessly, to defend indefensible actions of
Buhari’s government, crawled into their holes. They went into sleep
mode—mute was the word. Some prejudiced propagandistic media platforms
of the APC like Nation newspapers, Saharareporters.com, Channels TV that
conspired actively with tyrants in power to eviscerate judicial
independence, by dehumanising Nigeria’s Chief Justice in the media,
played ostrich. Where is Dennis Agha—the hired blackmailer; the hungry
pawn in the chess board, who was used to bring opprobrium on the CJN?
What thoughts will be racing in his mind at this juncture? Now that
their lies and outright fabrications against this man have been
mercilessly punctured and exposed, can Tinubu’s mouthpiece called Nation
newspaper buried its head in shame for publishing satanic lies against
Justice Onnoghen, just to wreck Nigerian judiciary and annex its
independence? In the
foregoing context, will highly corrupted merchant of fake news cum
blackmail called Saharareporters.com tender unreserved apology to CJN
Onnoghen for maligning his character and attempting to destroy his
impeccable credibility? What are they still waiting for to make a
profound apology to Nigerians for misleading them into believing that
Justice Walter Onnoghen “owned” fictitious assets? Where are all these
paid protesters who disturbed the peace of Abuja in their infamous
Onnoghen-must-go charade? The morally bereft intellectual buffoons who
went on national TVs to defend desecration of the country’s temple of
justice have all shamefully gone into hiding; albeit disgracefully—they
have changed the narrative to hide their deep-seated sadism and
insufferably hypocrisy. Where are those  ethno-religious zealots whose
real offense against CJN Onnoghen was based on his tribal affiliation? It
has been reaffirmed that President Buhari is not fighting corruption
but on vendetta mission. No one will doubt again that CJN Onnoghen was
illegally suspended to weaken judicial independence, in order to
compromise the bench ahead of the election petitions emanating from
brazenly rigged 2019 elections. It was a script acted by enemies of
democracy. Those who still believe that Buhari is fighting corruption
can be awarded the crowns of the most gullible and naive creatures of
21st century. The NJC should step in now to restore the dignity of the
judiciary by reinstating Justice Walter Onnoghen to continue his job as
Chief Justice of Nigeria and sanction those who collaborated with the
despots to benefit from Onnoghen’s travails. Its silence is no longer
golden. The judicial regulatory body must assert its independence now;
or lose it forever. The
persecution of CJN Onnoghen exposed the PDP as a weakling in opposition
politics. The party is an ineffectual opposition — I am making this
assertion with every sense of responsibility. The PDP failed in its
responsibilities to rally around the CJN by countering the APC’s
venomous propaganda against Justice Onnoghen in the media. I am still
awed that all these facts have been there all this while, and the PDP
media team and Atiku’s campaign allowed the APC to run down Nigeria’s
apex judicial officer, knowing fully well that the fight was targeted at
Atiku Abubakar’s envisaged post-election petition. By conservative
nature of judges, especially someone who has paid his dues in the
system, I never expected Justice Walter Onnoghen to engage ferocious BMC
and its offshoot soldiers in the media. It was the job of the
opposition whose interest was (is) stake. I
was disappointed that the same opposition that benefited from judicial
independence—made possible by Onnoghen’s uncompromising stand, could not
defend the man in the media despite all the glaring evidence that he is
being persecuted for upholding rule of law, which made it possible for
the PDP to breathe today. The PDP would have been dead and buried during
Ali Mode Sheriff legal onslaught against the party, if not that Supreme
Court under Justice Walter Onnoghen defended the constitution and
upheld rule of law. The same CJN Onnoghen killed the perceived
tyrannical agenda of the Presidency to annex National Assembly by
removing Bukola Saraki as senate president. Saraki’s victory in his
assets declaration case at Supreme Court strengthened the legislative
independence and entrenched principles of separation of powers.  Unfortunately,
when the “Nazist” cabal came for Onnoghen, neither the Legislature nor
the opposition was there for him. CJN Onnoghen was left in the cold. The
APC propagandists took advantage of the PDP  almost non-existent media
machinery to paint Onnoghen as “corrupt”, gave him jungle justice in the
court of public opinion and hoodwink gullible Nigerians into believing
that Buhari is fighting corruption. The Overwhelming  propaganda of the
APC against him in the media, without the PDP’s counter narrative,
provided the much-needed smokescreen to unconstitutionally suspend him.
The PDP—the party that had something at stake, outsourced the fight to
already fractured Nigerian Bar Association (NBA). Anyone who
participated overtly or covertly in Onnoghen’s travails, will be wrongly
accused, humiliated and disgraced in the future. Karma is a bitch.
Posterity doesn’t suffer amnesia — it remembers. 