Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Federal lawmaker representing Delta Central
Senatorial District, Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege has said that President Muhammadu
Buhari will be actively involved in the process of selecting the next
leadership of the Senate. Speaking to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Warri, Omo-Agege
said the President and the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) would avoid
the 2015 mistake that led to the emergence of Sen. Bukola Saraki as the
president of the Senate. ‘‘Anybody who is going to be Senate
President, in the 9th Senate, must be somebody who is loyal to Mr President,
the party and the constitution. ‘‘The Senate President will be
determined by Mr President. Mr President will indicate to us through the party
who he want to work with,’’ Omo-Agege said. The ruling APC is set to produce the
next Senate president after winning the majority of senatorial seats at the
upper legislative chamber in the Feb. 23 election. Asked if APC has zoned the senate
presidency to any geo-political zone, the lawmaker said ‘‘I do not know.’’ ‘‘But what I can tell you is that we are
going to have a Senate that will work with Mr President. ‘‘The era of allowing renegades who rode
on the back of Mr President, who rode on the back of the party to go in there
and trade the party’s mandate, I think that era is gone. ‘‘I am very hopeful that this time
around, Mr President will step in and decide not only the zone that will
produce the Senate president and the leadership but also who should be. ‘‘We don’t want to erect another
opposition leader in the Senate, as we had in the 8th Assembly. ‘‘There are a lot of us in the Senate
who are returning to the next senate who fits into that position. We are so
many but any decision the President makes, we will all fall in line and abide. ‘‘We want President Buhari to succeed
and it is all in our place, some of us who are close to him, to tell him
certain calls he should not make because we know ourselves in the National
Assembly and we do not want a repeat of the Saraki saga as we go back to the
ninth Senate.’’ he said. Speaking on the upcoming Saturday’s
election, Omo-Agege said the APC stood a
chance to win the March 9 governorship elections in Delta, saying ‘‘Delta
people are determined not to be in the opposition again.’’ Source: NAN By Ismaila Chafe Abuja - President Paul Biya of Cameroon has felicitated with President Muhammadu… By Ismaila Chafe Abuja - President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated President Macky Sall of Senegal… By Stanley Nwanosike Enugu - The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) has congratulated President…