By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sumdiata Post) – In the just concluded 2019 general
election the Peoples Democratic Party has bulldozed its way through and
recovers 14 states from the ruling All Progressives Congress and with what is happening
in courts, the party may still rake in more states in its favour. With elections concluded and results announced by the
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) the opposition People’s
Democratic Party, PDP, has won more states than it did in 2015 when it was the
ruling party. Recall that prior to the 2019 general elections, the PDP had
11 governors. The number will rise to at least 14 on May 29, 2019 when new
governors and those re-elected are sworn-in. If the Appeal Court and Supreme
Court concur with the decisions of the tribunal and lower courts on Zamfara and
Osun, and the suspended Rivers governorship election goes in its favour, the
PDP will have 17 governors at the end of the day. Currently, the PDP is the only party that produced governors
in the six geo-political zones of the country. Conversely, the ruling All
Progressives Congress, APC, which had 23 governors before the 2019 polls now
has 21, which may further go down to 19 depending on what happens on the Osun
and Zamfara suits. Recall that Fintiri unseated Governor Jubrilla Bindow, who
is the APC candidate in the Adamawa governorship election, which was concluded
late Thursday night. With Fintiri’s victory, Bindow is the third sitting
governor that lost out in this election. The first is Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed
of Kwara while the second was Governor of Bauchi State, Mohammed Abdullahi
Abubakar. Sundaiat Post reminds that Fintiri was speaker of Adamawa
State House of Assembly and later acting governor when Admiral Murtala Nyako
was impeached. His victory is coming as a Yola high court dismissed a suit
seeking to cancel the Adamawa state governorship election. The suit was brought
by Eric Theman, candidate of the Movement for the Restoration and Defence of
Democracy, MRDD. Theman had dragged the Independent National Electoral
Commission, INEC, to the court for omitting his party’s logo on the ballot
papers. He asked the court to order the cancellation of the election and direct
that a fresh poll be held. However, at its sitting on Friday, the judge, Abdulazeez
Waziri, dismissed Theman’s suit for “lack of evidence”. He said the applicant
failed to provide any evidence to back his claim that his party’s logo was
omitted. The PDP won more states by strengthening its hold in the
South-East and making in-roads in the North-East and South-West. In the
South-East, the three PDP governors – Dave Umahi (Ebonyi), Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi
(Enugu) and Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia) retained their seats and its Candidate, Emeka
Ihedioha, snatched Imo State from the APC, which was crisis-ridden. In the South-West, the PDP also won Oyo, the headquarters of
the region, compensating for its loss of Ekiti State recently to the APC. Last
week, the tribunal overturned the election of APC’s Niyi Oyetola as governor of
Osun State and declared PDP’s Ademola Adeleke as winner. Oyetola and the APC
have appealed the verdict. What the Court of Appeal and Supreme Court will do
is to be seen. In the North-East, the PDP also added Bauchi and Adamawa to
Taraba that it has been controlling since 1999. And in the North-Central, PDP
retained Benue but lost Kwara to the APC. The PDP, with the slimmest of
margins, 342 votes, retained a foothold in the North-West via Governor Aminu
Tambuwal’s victory in Sokoto State. PDP may increase its stakes in the zone depending on what
the Supreme Court says on APC candidates in Zamfara State, including the
Governor-elect, Muktar Idris, who the Appeal Court refused to recognize the
primaries that produced them. If the apex court aligns with the appeal court, the
governorship, federal and state assembly seats won by the APC will be handed
over to PDP candidates, who came second in the various elections. As it is, the PDP
states now are Abia, Ebonyi, Enugu, Bayelsa, Akwa Ibom, Sokoto, Cross River,
Delta, Benue, Taraba, Imo, Bauchi, Adamawa, Oyo and Rivers. While APC states are Lagos, Ekiti, Ogun, Ondo, Osun, Edo,
Kwara, Kogi, Nasarawa, Plateau, Borno, Yobe, Gombe, Jigawa, Kano, Kaduna,
Katsina, Kebbi, Zamfara, Niger. Anambra is the only state not controlled by the APC or PDP.
It belongs to the All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA. It is imperative to state that if the PDP sustains its
present tempo, it would likely return its former days when the party controlled
almost 28 of the 36 states of the federation s witnessed in its early days of
formation.