I still don’t know why we think everything about the African culture is BAD. Or our ways of doing things are so inferior to those of the white man. Don’t get me wrong: I am not even talking about RELIGION here but strictly CULTURE. It took me years to discover that there is nothing in the English way of consummating marriages that was not in Yoruba way too, especially in my native Ekiti. For instance, wedding in traditional Yorubaland, especially in Ondo/Ekiti States, is called “Obitun”. Obitun also loosely means “the bride”. Now, an “Obitun” usually has “Aaros”. These “Aaros” are young dames from her family who are usually younger than her. They could be up to six or eight in number or less. They also must include a young girl of between eight or ten years old. In most cases, these young ladies follow the bride to her new home after wedding and stay with her for few days before returning home. They wait on her, run errands for her and daily apply the camwood on her body. They are usually assisted by other ladies from the husband side who help her to settle into her new environment. The young girl (of between 8 and 10 years old) usually stays with the “Obitun” permanently to run errands for her as culture forbids she sends her Hubby’s younger ones on errand. In some occasions, the young girl returns after many years by which time the “Obitun” must have had children who are old enough to run errands for her. In my culture too, there is what is called “Ade Obitun”. It is held about ten days after the wedding proper. A place is fixed (usually home of an elderly family member from the bride’s side) where foods and drinks are copiously provided. People make merry while the bride and groom, gorgeously dressed, sit in a specially prepared chairs. People go to them and greet them and pray for them and some give them cash gifts as well. The fun goes on into wee hours of the night. Now the similarities: Now, our “Aaros” are what the English people call Bridal Train that includes Ladies in Waiting, Ladies of Wardrobe, Page Girl, Ring Bearer. The small girl is the modern day Little Bride. The “Ade Obitun” is our own version of WEDDING RECEPTION where foods and drinks are served. We didn’t learn all these from anyone. It was our father’s ideas. Why can’t we be proud of it? (To be continued…)