By Ugochi UgochukwuAbuja. -. A Karmo Grade I Area Court in Abuja on Thursday sentenced a vagrant, Evans Omenai, to five months in prison for stealing a cell phone worth N75, 000 in a church Omenai, whose address was not provided, is charged with stealing. The Judge, Alhaji Inuwa Maiwada, held that the court had no option than to sentence the convict accordingly since he had pleaded guilty to the charge and saved the court the rigour of protracted prosecution. He, however, gave the convict an option of N7, 000 fine. Maiwada also warned the convict to be of good behaviour and to desist from committing crimes after serving his punishment. He ordered the convict to pay N70, 000 as reparation to the complainant. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recall that Omenai was arraigned on Feb. 13 and was remanded in Suleja prison for sentencing. NAN report that Omenai had pleaded guilty to the charge on the date of his arraignment and told the court that he sold the said phone to someone now at large at the GSM Village, Abuja, and prayed the court to have mercy on him The Prosecuting Counsel, Mrs. Ijeoma Ukagha, had informed the court on Feb. 13 that one Okafa Chidi of Girshr Village, Abuja, reported the matter at the Utako Police Station on Feb.8. Ijeoma said that on Jan. 26, Omenai criminally went into Christ Embassy Church, Wuse Zone 5, with intention to steal, but not to worship. She said that Omenai went to the church pretending to be a worshiper, but intentionally and smartly stole one Samsung 4G cell phone valued at N 74,000 Ijeoma said that the convict was arrested during police investigation, but could not explain the whereabouts of  the phone. “Right now, the phone in question is missing,’’ Ijeoma said, adding that the case was still under investigation and the police was making effort to arrest the buyer. The prosecutor said the offence contravened the provisions of Section 288 of the Penal Code. By NAN An Isheri Magistrates' Court in Lagos on Friday remanded a man who allegedly defrauded… By NAN An Isheri Magistrates' Court in Lagos on Friday remanded a man who allegedly defrauded… By Gami Tadanyigbe Kuje - A Kuje Upper Area Court, Abuja, on Thursday, sentenced a…