It was 10 years ago that Nigeria was engulfed in a financial crisis of
unprecedented proportion.  Proof that Asset Management Corporation of
Nigeria (AMCON)  is the pillar of Nigeria’s financial stability
mechanism is provided by the fact that during that period Nigeria was
able to cope with one bank in crisis here and another blue chip company
going bust there without momentous quiver of our financial-cum-banking
system. Indeed, it is testament to the fact that AMCON has lived
up to the expectation of its establishment – it is playing its role as
effectively as envisaged. AMCON’s impressive performance is as a
result of hard work by many players. The visionary leadership provided
by a through-bred banker, Ahmed Kuru, has been a fundamental factor. So
has the close cooperation of key financial regulatory institutions and
very important stakeholders – Federal Ministry of Finance, CBN, NDIC and
SEC.  Underpinning the success of AMCON has been the adoption of a
liquidation option that safeguard depositors’ funds and reassure
investor confidence have aided the success recorded in the management of
our financial crises. Whenever there is a crisis in any of our
money banks, NDIC is likely to be the first to uncover it. The CBN will
then move to reorganise the bank’s management, If the crisis persists,
it may revoke the bank’s license, and NDIC will return to give a
prescriptive remedy—nowadays a bridge bank liquidation option— whereupon
AMCON is called to assume the bank’s liabilities, inject funds and set
in motion how to recover the taxpayers’ funds invested in the bank and
find new investors to take over the bank. So what is AMCON’s
mandate in this collective approach to managing Nigeria’s financial
system? AMCON was established to fulfill the following objectives: •Assist eligible financial institutions to efficiently dispose of eligible bank assets; •Manage efficiently  and dispose of eligible bank’s assets acquired by it; and •Obtain the best achievable financial returns on eligible bank’s assets or other assets acquired by it. The
corporation came at the right time in 2010 when the banking sector had
undergone, for the first time, massive structural reforms, which
involved bank consolidations, recapitalisation and managerial changes at
some banks, and portfolio clean-ups. These reforms provided a solution
to the banking crisis that Nigeria experienced few years ago. In the
end,  the soundness in the banking sector was restored. AMCON
then contributed a lot in stabilising the economy through acquiring the
Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) of some of the distressed banks, providing
financial accommodation to others, which engendered financial stability
in the banking system. AMCON’s initial achievements were
tremendous. In an unprecedented move AMCON acquired about 13,774
Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) worth N3.6 trillion from 22 commercial
banks. That move saved our banking system, while its provision of
financial accommodation of N 2.2billion protected about N 4.7trillion of
depositors’ funds and interbank takings as well as saved approximately
14,000 jobs. With the settlement of about 56 percent of the total N3.7
trillion (about N2.072 trillion) bad debts AMCON is not doing badly with
recovery efforts, putting into consideration the historical success of
other AMC’s in other climes with even much better working environments. This
feat is commendable if one looks at the fact that the country went into
recession in 2016-2017. During this period Nigeria experienced a very
sluggish growth in the economy, which was aggravated by  inadequate
supply of foreign exchange and accentuated by a falling of the price of
oil, the nation’s main FX earner, accounting for about 75% of its export
revenue. Conveniently out of the recession the renewed efforts
at non-oil revenue collection are helping to reduce fiscal vulnerability
caused by oil price shocks. Thanks to the reforms pursued by
the Buhari administration to lay a foundation for renewed growth,
increased revenues from the non-oil sector are also helping the country. The
enforcement of the  treasury single account (TSA) blocked financial
leakages. Renewed efforts also went into enforcement of tax compliance,
which increased the ratio of capital to recurrent expenditure to 30:70.
Above all, there has been continuous support for agencies saddled with
the responsibility of stabilising the financial system such as Assets
Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) are fast yielding results. I
can see similarities in the path taken by Nigeria and Europe in
managing the financial systems in the post-crises period, including the
role of institutions like AMCON. Europe implemented three
fundamentals policies in the post 2008/9 financial meltdown. Firstly, it
implemented massive reforms and some of the countries that received
financial assistance from the European Financial Stability Facility
(EFSF)/European Stability Mechanism (ESM), such as Spain and Ireland,
have among the highest growth rates in Europe today. Secondly,
closer economic policy coordination between the euro area countries now
makes it harder to repeat the mistakes that led to the crisis in the
first place. Today there are concerted efforts for a Banking Union
through the establishment of the Single Supervisory Mechanism, which now
oversees the 130 systemically important banks at the European level,
and the Single Resolution Board, which was set up to wind down failing
banks across Europe. Thirdly, I liken the European Stability
Mechanism (ESM) to AMCON. This institution serves as a rescue mechanism
for euro area countries that have lost market access. Like AMCON, ESM
were not there at the beginning of the crisis, but the ESM is today a
permanent institution ready to fight the next crisis when it comes. The
ESM has disbursed a total of €279 billion to programme countries.
Funding these programmes has made ESM a key market player. ESM has
issued more than 100 benchmark bonds and 130 bills over the last seven
years (2010-2017). Like the achievements of Nigeria’s AMCON, these
achievements by ESM would have been unthinkable only a few years back,
but, as a result, the euro area economy is now back on track and rapidly
growing again. Through AMCON, Nigeria is making the best out of
the situation of its banks’ toxic loans, which are at the heart of many
banking crises. Nigeria is quite lucky to have at the driver’s seat of
AMCON in the last three and half years a risk management expert of
widely acknowledged repute-Ahmed Lawan Kuru—humble, disciplined and
firm. Since his arrival on the scene he has further entrenched
professionalism in the way and manner AMCON operates. His idea of assets
management partners (AMP), from example, is helping AMCON’s recovery
efforts. The move is AMCON’s strategy to resolve over six thousand
accounts with loan balances of N100 million and below. Ahmed
played at the top echelon of the former Bank PHB as executive Director
overseeing critical areas like Risk Management, Compliance, Commercial
Banking, Northern Operations, Public Sector, Multilateral Agencies and
the West Coast, East and Central Africa expansion programme of the bank. Before assuming his current position of MD/CEO at AMCON, Ahmed
was the MD/CEO of Enterprise Bank Limited. He was also Executive Vice
Chairman, Emeritus Capital Limited, a financial service firm with
speciality in international business development focusing in sub-Saharan
Africa. Meeting the obligations of the AMCON consists of
supporting businesses with a view to enhancing their productivity. More
than that, it includes transforming their NPLs to RPLs (Re-performing
loans). Doing this provides liquidity to the banks, which in turn help
them meet their own obligations as well. I will be quick to add
here one of the famous quotes of the AMCON’s CEO which is “that debt in
itself is not always a bad thing. The problem of debt arises when there
is default”. So the question is always how do we avoid defaults, and if
they eventually happened, how do we manage the crisis that follows?
There is no one-size-fits-all answer to these questions. Every nation
studies its economic peculiarities and adopts the best approach that
will mitigate the potential for a catastrophe. AMCON is Nigeria’s
stabilisation mechanism of choice and it is the serving the nation. Europe
sees the ESM as a permanent institution moving forward ready to fight
the crisis of the future. Why shouldn’t Nigeria take a similar,
long-range view and allow AMCON to remain for many years to come? At its
establishment, it was designed to last for just 10 years. With the
benefit of hindsight, and considering the effective stabilizing role it
is playing in our economy, our next National Assembly will do well to
amend and extend the term of AMCON for it to continue with its good
work, which is in tandem with the global best practices. •Hassan, a financial analyst, wrote from Abuja.