By Aisha Cole Lagos – The Shippers Association Lagos State (SALS) is in support of payment of registration fees initiated by the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) but seeks more time to pay the fees. The President of the Association, Rev. Jonathan Nicol made this known
in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos on
Tuesday. According to him, we support the fees for identification purposes because some freight forwarders are operating without offices. “ The registration fees will enable Shippers’ Council to verify port operators’ offices before registering them. “Some people do not have operating offices and one cannot get
certificate of operations if one does not have an office. This is what
we want NSC to streamline. “I appeal to those who are quarreling that when we register the first
year, we have 12 months to look how it works and if it is something we
have to condemn, we will do so, ‘’ Nicol said. He, however, urged port operators to form synergy to enable them have smooth operations and reduce the time of doing business. The NSC, had in Feb. 27, 2019, announced a 50 per cent cut across
board on the registration fees it recently introduced for operators in
the maritime sector. The NSC proposed the fees after consultations with relevant stakeholders. The breakdown shows that shipping line agencies and seaport terminal
operators would now pay N50,000 down from N100,000, while Inland
Container Depot operators would pay N25,000 instead of N50,000. Warehouse operators, off dock terminal operators, stevedoring
companies and cargo consolidators are expected to pay N10,000 instead of
N20,000, while freight forwarders, clearing agents and haulage firms
are to pay N5,000 instead of N10,000. Shippers associations’ fee remains N5,000. The Executive Secretary of the NSC, Mr Hassan Bello, had explained
that the fees were “one-off payment that would help the government in
policy formulation and also rid the sector of quacks’’. By NAN Chairman of the Association of Retired Staff of Anambra Broadcasting Service (ABS), Mr… By Rita Iliya Minna - The Niger Government has released a total of N800 million… Julius Adebulu, an Internal Auditor with the Police Pension Office, on Friday told an FCT High…