By Joy Mbachi Awka – Anambra Government has restated its commitment to resolving rising cases of land disputes in the state. The Deputy Governor of the state, Dr Nkem Okeke, made the pledge in
an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Awka on Wednesday. Okeke expressed dismay at the high rate of land disputes across the
country especially in the South East describing it as `worrisome’. The deputy governor, who is also the Chairman, State Boundary
Committee, appealed to stakeholders in affected communities to always
treat land matters justly. According to him, the state government is employing seasoned hands to handle land disputes in the state. Okeke said that the state government would continue to ensure that
relative peace prevailed in all communities in the state and as such
constituted an Administrative Panel of inquiry headed by retired Justice
Chinyere Anigbogu. He disclosed that currently, the administrative panel had looked into
Abagana, Ukpo, Enugu-Ukwu, Abba, Nawfia and Enugu-Agidi land disputes
and expressed satisfaction on the work done so far in amicable solution. “I have addressed members of the panel, the affected communities and all relevant stakeholders on some of its sittings. “I appealed to them to see reasons with government on the need to
amicably resolve any dispute as brothers and without fear or favour. “All we are asking is for all relevant bodies to shelve their knives and embrace peace in its entirety,” he said. Okeke said that report of the panel of inquiry would soon be ready to determine the immediate and remote causes of the disputes. “I trust the leadership of the panel in doing a great job and believe
that its recommendations to the state government with the aim of
reconciling all warring parties, will be appreciated by all,’’ he said. The deputy governor advised traditional rulers of the affected
communities to embrace peace and shun unwholesome behavior for peace to
reign. He said that the committee unveiled peace plaque urging various
communities to mount the plaques at conspicuous places in their
communities for people to read and learn to preach peace.