By Mohammad Tijjani Kaduna – The Commissioner of Police in Kaduna State, Mr Ahmad Abdurrahaman on Monday met community leaders of Sanga Local Government Area in Kaduna to discuss ways of ensuring lasting peace in the area. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Nandu, a village in Sanga LGA was attacked by unknown gunmen on March 16 leading to the killing of nine persons. The community leaders who met with the CP included the chairman of the LGA, religous leaders, traditional and youth leaders among others. Speaking at the meeting, the CP said “We cannot sit down and fold our arms to watch citizens of this great country Nigeria killing one another just because they do not believe in peaceful co-existence and because of selfish interests. “So everyone must come together to find a lasting solution to this menace. “My job is very simple. As the commissioner of police of the state, I am for everybody and should be just and fair to all. “My heart bleeds whenever a section of the society picks arms and begins to attack others without any reason. “We should tolerate one another. We have our own people being accommodated in other countries. If other people can tolerate Nigerians in other countries why can’t we tolerate our brethren.” He warned those who are in the habit of taking the laws into their own  hands to desist. He said that he observed that the youths were being misled into devastating their future without knowing it. “We were once youths before becoming who we are today. We want you to be very productive and be prepared to take over Nigeria and take it to a higher heights. “I have always said that retaliation is never a solution to solving crisis, but coming together to finding a lasting solution to it. I urge everyone to contribute towards building the community,” he said. The Executive Chairman of Sanga LG, Mr Charles Danladi, said the meeting with the CP was fruitful. “What we discussed will bring lasting peace in our community. We must leave in peace, because peace is paramount to development. The Chairman Meyyeti Allah in Sanga, Hassan Abdulkarim, said the interaction was good as it would lead to sustainable peace. Abdulkarim said there was need to live in peace with one another. “The meeting will build confidence and mutual trust among us. It will bring permanent peace to our community,” he said. (NAN)