Muzaffarabad, (Pakistan) – Pakistan handed a captured Indian Pilot back to his country on Friday as the nuclear-armed neighbours scaled back their confrontation, at least temporarily. Television footage showed Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman walking
across the border near the town of Wagah just before 9.00 p.m. (1600
GMT). Indian officials confirmed he had been returned and said he would be taken for medical checks. Varthaman was shot down on Wednesday while flying a MiG-21 fighter
jet that crashed in Pakistani territory after a dogfight with a
Pakistani JF-17. World powers have urged restraint from the two nations, as tensions
escalated following a suicide car bombing that killed at least 40 Indian
paramilitary police in Indian-controlled Kashmir on Feb. 14. Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said earlier on
Friday that the pilot would be released “as a gesture of peace and to
de-escalate matters’’. Before the pilot was released, Pakistani television stations
broadcast video of him, looking cleaned up, commending the Pakistani
army for treating him well. “The Pakistani army is a very professional service,’’ he said. Throughout the day, crowds on the Indian side thronged the road to
the crossing, shouting nationalist slogans and waving Indian flags. “Pakistan is releasing our pilot, I thank them for that,” said
Kulwant Singh, who has run a food stall at the crossing for 20 years. “War can never be good. War is bad for business war is bad for our soldiers.” The disputed Himalayan region of Kashmir has been at the root of two
of the three wars fought between India and Pakistan since they gained
independence from Britain in 1947. There was some firing along the contested border dividing Kashmir,
according to a spokesman for India’s defence ministry, but the
hostilities were well short of previous days. Pakistan reopened some airports on Friday, after easing airspace
restrictions that had disrupted flights between Asia and Europe for
several days during the conflict. Relations between the two countries, however, remain strained. Qureshi said he would not attend a meeting of foreign ministers from
the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation in Abu Dhabi by Saturday,
because his Indian counterpart had been invited to the event. India also faces an ongoing battle against armed militants in its portion of Kashmir. Four security personnel and a civilian were killed in a gun battle with militants, officials said. (Reuters/NAN) New Delhi - Indian Air Force fighter jets crossed the line of control in disputed… By Joey Akan Kenyan singer, Victoria Kimani, who’s signed to Chocolate City, has released a… By NAN Governor Mukhtar Yero of Kaduna State has released N710 million for the payment…