By Zubairu Idris Katsina – The Katsina State Chief Judge (CJ), Justice Musa Danladi, has warned Shariah Court Judges against corrupt practices and laxity to ensure quick dispensation of justice. Danladi gave the warning in Katsina on Wednesday while delivering a keynote address at a two-day workshop on Shariah Procedure and Practice, organised for judges of Shariah Court in the state. He said that there were complaints on some of the judges, hence the need for them to adhere to the judicial ethics and code of conducts. The CJ urged the judges to allow the fear of God, the Quran and the Prophetic traditions to guide them always. He advised them to be punctual at work, have a good appearance and avoid disgracing people in their courts. He further advised judges to be careful of attending events that are capable of spoiling their names and reputation, while urging them to develop a good relationship with the people. The CJ counselled the judges to avoid taking decisions when tired. In his remarks, the state Grand Khadi, Hafiz Abubakar, said the state government had constituted a Shariah Commission charged with the responsibility of screening Shariah court judges in the state. He, however, urged the state government to establish Hizbah Commission to enable it enforce Shariah laws in the state. Abubakar called for the establishment of two additional Sharia courts in the state as approved in the 2019 budget. Meanwhile, Isa Dodo, Nigeria’s Ambassador to Saudi Arabia and a former Grand Khadi, urged the government to place the control of the Shariah courts under the Shariah Court of Appeal as in other states practising Shariah Law. Dodo appealed to the judges to participate fully in the workshop with a view to widening their knowledge for smooth dispensation of cases in their respective courts. The state Attorney-General, Ahmed El-marzuq, said the government had already sent a bill for the establishment of Hizbah Commission to the State House of Assembly. El-marzuq, who represented Gov. Aminu Masari, said the state government would continue to support the judiciary with adequate funds to enable it discharge its constitutional responsibility. He reminded judges on the need to adhere to the judicial ethics and code of conducts. In his remarks, the Secretary, Katsina Shariah Commission, Alhaji Magaji Liman, urged the participants to put the knowledge of the workshop to practice. Liman commended the state government for the support it had been giving to the commission and urged it to sustain the tempo. (NAN)