By Peter Okolie Onitsha (Anambra) – Sen. Stella Oduah has promised to join forces with the relevant security agencies in her second tenure to fight the rising wave of drug abuse among the nation’s youths. Oduah, representing Anambra North Senatorial District, made the promise in a “Thank you” statement she issued in Onitsha on Thursday. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that she was re-elected for a second tenure in Saturday’s National Assembly election on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party. She said: “In the coming days, I will be setting up a think tank to look into the area of drug dependency and abuse currently ravaging our land. “I must say that this is the issue that is very dear to my heart, we must save the young generation. “I used the opportunity of my numerous campaigns to stop and witness firsthand the cancer that is killing our youth’s but all that will be addressed soon,” she said. Oduah said she moved and supported many bills and motions in the Senate in a bid to turn the senatorial district into “an oasis of peace and development.” “I can say that it has been a roller coaster ride of unwavering attempts at seeking out ways to ameliorate the plight of the indigenes and downtrodden in our communities. “It is also pertinent to note my strive in infrastructure development that has ensured that we have well-constructed and rehabilitated roads, schools, police stations, bore holes and street lights, among others,” the lawmaker said. She further stated that she often got excited and accomplished each time her interventions helped to ameliorate the plight of the down-trodden in society. She said that she had intervened in getting scores of youths trained in different trades and given seed money to start up their businesses in order to make them self-reliant. Oduah commended the people of the constituency for giving her their mandate and promised to do more for them in her second tenure. She extended a hand of fellowship to her opponents in the quest to transform the area and ensure the wellbeing of the people. NAN reports that Oduah polled 113,989 votes to defeat Mr Emmanuel Chinedu of the All Progressives Grand Alliance, who polled 59,937 votes, Mr Nelson Onubogu of the All Progressives Congress, who scored 11,995 votes, and 18 other candidates in the election. (NAN) By Kadiri Abdulrahman Abuja - The Lamido of Adamawa, Dr. Muhammed Barkindo, has advised parents… By Deborah Coker Benin - The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo has commended security… ABUJA - Agencies and departments in the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) on Tuesday embarked on…