By Chukwuemeka Opara Abakaliki – The Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has called for the sustenance of high-level collaboration among security agencies as witnessed during the general elections in Ebonyi. AN) The Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has called for the sustenance of high-level collaboration among security agencies as witnessed during the general elections in Ebonyi. The new NSCDC  Commandant in Ebonyi, Steve Amoga, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)  in Abakaliki that  such collaboration had been highly effective. Amoga noted that such high-level collaboration ensured that the elections were generally peaceful in the state, inspite of the few skirmishes recorded in some areas. “I monitored the presidential and gubernatorial elections in Ebonyi with heads of sister security agencies, including the police, army, Department of State Security  among others. “We visited various parts of the state, shared relevant information and worked with high-level synergy to ensure adequate security during the elections. “Some people misunderstood security personnel’s massive presence across the state  which was not to intimidate voters, but give them adequate assurances to come out and vote. “Security personnel were stationed 500 metres off polling units as unarmed ones were at the various units to ensure orderliness for a credible electoral process,” he said. The NSCDC commandant noted that security agencies had arrested some suspects over the burning of the INEC Registration Area Centre at Ezza North Local Government Area. “The two main political parties in the state were accusing each other of culpability in the incident, but security agencies are on the trail of remaining suspects. “We also ensured that National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members were adequately protected as they form part the electoral officers’ retinue,’’ he said. He added that his  blueprint would have protection of  national assets and facilities in the state as primary task. “We would vigorously check activities of oil and gas facilities’ vandals, bring sophistication to  the activities of private guards and ensure  that they operate within their professional expectations. “We would also liaise with the national and state emergency management agencies to check natural disasters and  settle disputes between  individuals  and  groups,” he said. Amoga, however, called for more support from the government and private organisations in  confronting  the various challenges facing the corps. “I inherited four operational vehicles donated by the state government, but it is inadequate in ensuring effective monitoring and discharging of related functions in the 13 LGAs  of the state,’’ he said. (NAN)