Contrary to
the false report which claimed that the Nigerian Maritime Administration and
Safety Agency (NIMASA) and NLNG failed to provide assistance to a distressed
vessel, resulting in the sinking of the vessel and loss of lives; the organisation
has stated that NIMASA and NLNG actually saved the vessel through its Search
and Rescue Operations. The said fishing vessel did not sink and is currently at
the ORC Jetty at Kirikiri Lighter Terminal in Lagos where it was safely towed
after rescue. This was
made known in statement by Head, Corporate Communications, NIMASA, Isichei
Osamgbi. For the
records, NIMASA Search and Rescue Control Room received a distress call at
about 20:00hrs on 6th Feb 2019 that a Vessel MV ORC 4 (ORC IV) was on fire at
Bonny Anchorage and that the crew were abandoning the vessel. The Agency’s
Search and Rescue Station swung into action and relayed the emergency call to
shipping within the area in line with its statutory mandate as enshrined in
SS.22(1) and SS.22(4) of the NIMASA Act 2007 and S.2(1) of the Merchant
Shipping Act 2007 on Maritime Safety. After
preliminary investigation and assessment of the distress, the Agency
immediately sought collaboration with the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG)
whose firefighting tug was closest to the scene to assist in bringing the
situation under control along with other neighbouring vessels who collaborated
in the rescue exercise, in line with global shipping standard. Accordingly,
the NLNG immediately swung into action by dispatching the firefighting tug boat
named; CTOW ANN SOPHIE to the scene which was used to extinguish the fire.  The crew onboard were safely evacuated and
the vessel safely towed to her owner’s jetty where she is currently undergoing
repairs. Commenting
on the issue, the Head, Maritime Safety and Seafarers Standards Department of
the Agency, Captain Sunday Umoren while commending the support of Atlantic
Shrimpers’ vessels , his team and NLNG for the successful operation in saving
the fishing vessel further clarified the misconception as reported in the
media. He said “there is a difference between emergency and salvage operations.
Saving of lives is the mandatory action during an emergency and should be
treated with top priority, but saving an asset is salvage, which is never
free”. He also
stated that usually, to save time, the salvor and the Master of the Vessel (to
be salvaged) will agree for the operation to be under Lloyd’s Open Form (LOF),
an international agreement which is a standard form contract for a proposed
marine salvage operation which is aimed at eliminating pre-salvage negotiations
deferring such to be decided by Arbitrators on completion of the salvage
operation. On the incident, the Head of Maritime Safety Department further
hinted that post incident analysis will be conducted and recommendations put
forward especially on fixed firefighting systems on fishing vessels and that
lessons learnt from the incident will be shared with stakeholders in the
shipping industry. Also, in a
letter titled “Appreciation for Support During Fire Incident on Board ORCiv
Trawler” addressed to the Director General Dr. Dakuku Peterside on February 11,
2019, the Group Managing Director of ORCiv Fishing and Food Processing Limited,
Rahul Savara, thanked the Agency for the rescue efforts. In his words, “We
would like to sincerely appreciate Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre (MRCC)
for every assistance provided during the fire incident. Your timely support in
dousing the fire aided in reducing the material loss that would have been
incurred as a result of the incident. Please remain assured of our utmost
regards and best wishes.” It would be
recalled that in a recent interactive session with journalists in Lagos, the
Director General of NIMASA, Dr. Dakuku Peterside had made it known that the
Agency will continue to engage relevant stakeholders on the need for a
sustained collaboration to develop the sector. NIMASA
remains committed to its mandate of ensuring it realizes a robust maritime
sector, which includes; safety of lives and maritime assets, search and rescue
Operations amongst others.