Suddenly, attention is shifting to Okotie-Eboh Primary School in Delta
State. A video that has gone viral on social media shows little Miss
Success Adebor protesting that her school sent her home because her
parents failed to pay her exam fees. “Oh poor girl! Even the school is
dilapidated!” And emergency “philanthropists” are sending in cash to
enable her pay the fees. I don’t begrudge Miss Adebor for
becoming the poster girl for Nigerian kids who cannot pay their school
fees. But the hypocrisy of some Nigerians has many colours. While we’ve
been shouting ourselves hoarse over the state of schools and education
in the country, some have been pretending to have never seen a poor
school pupil or a public school in ruins. Well, let’s keep
talking and keep reminding the pretenders of Nigeria’s new status as the
world’s poverty capital, which finds expression in the number of
children who cannot go to school. About 44.2% of the country’s
population (or 87million people), according to the World Poverty Clock,
lives in extreme poverty. It means that parents who fall within this
stratum cannot afford good education for their children. Currently, it
is estimated that the number of out-of-school-children in the country
exceeds 13.3 million. This state of affairs is a warning sign to
those who run Nigeria: ignorance is much more expensive than education.
Is it any wonder the country has been contending with several social
upheavals in recent times?  Boko Haram [“western education is
forbidden”] obviously appeals to unschooled kids, just as militancy in
the Niger Delta soaks up millions of frustrated youth who have received
little or no education. The Nigerian authorities should know the
clock is ticking – and the time-bomb that is youth restiveness will
spare no one. A way must be made for children from poor backgrounds
before they mature into adults in just a few years. UNESCO
prescribes that a minimum of 25% of each nation’s budget should be
reserved for education. Nigeria may not meet that target in the
foreseeable future, but it should gradually improve on its current 4—7%
for education in order to avoid a catastrophe. Quality basic
education is the minimum requirement for the wellbeing of children, as
it arms them with reading, writing, speaking, and numeracy skills that
make them eligible to access and use information in a knowledge-based
world. Strict implementation of the federal government’s Universal Basic
Education (UBE), a programme “aimed at ensuring an uninterrupted access
to nine-year formal education by providing free and compulsory basic
education for every child of school-going age”, is a point to start. 
For UBE to go beyond a policy on paper to a working policy that makes
quality education accessible to indigent children, there is need for
adequate funding – and mechanisms to ensure the funds are judiciously
used. Educational planners of today have lessons to pick from the
missionaries of the 1840s who brought western education to Nigeria. 
Those early missionaries provided free basic education, and that was the
saving grace for both the children of the rich and the poor. Had
missionary schools placed high fees on education, only an insignificant
number of Nigerians would have received any education then. Likewise,
the people of western Nigeria owe their headway today to the free
primary education policy of their first premier, Chief Obafemi 
Awolowo,  in the 1950s. Two other African countries that have put
their right foot forward are Liberia and Rwanda. President George Weah
has just announced free tuition for Liberians from primary through
secondary to tertiary level. Rwanda, a country that picked itself from
the ruins of war, invested hugely in children education; it thoroughly
funded and implemented a basic education policy that was a remarkable
success: 97% primary school enrolment. Consequently, private schools are
closing down in Rwanda as parents now enroll their children in public
schools. Improving the public school education, as Rwanda has
done, is not an impossible mission. An upward review of the nation’s
education budget would go a long way in making education accessible to
more Nigerians. Giving poor children access to education is the best
strategy to help them break free from the vicious circle of poverty.
Child Fund, an international organization promoting the well-being of
children, captures it thus: “Poverty and education are inextricably
linked, because people living in poverty may stop going to school so
they can work, which leaves them without literacy and numeracy skills
they need to further their careers. Their children, in turn, are in a
similar situation years later, with little income and few options but to
leave school and work.” Education is the launch pad of
development. The development of a nation is directly proportional to the
education of its citizens – no nation develops better than the
education it affords its citizens. Children who have access to quality
basic education have the tendency to grow into economically productive
citizens. And the more economically productive citizens a country has,
the more its economic growth. Good basic education prepares good and
reliable workforce for a country. This nation has been tortured
enough by its vulnerable citizens.  It’s time to fund the basic
education of indigent children so the rich could sleep with their eyes
closed. No society achieves much in a state of unrest and instability
that lack of education often triggers. It must be the right kind
of education, however. Not the faulty education that breeds joblessness:
we’re churning out more than a million mis-educated young people each
year without preparing them for employment. Shouldn’t we stop deceiving
ourselves by deemphasizing certificates? Sometime in February
2018, I read that the minister of education, Mr Adamu Adamu, had hinted
of a major education reform by the second quarter of 2018. Adamu was a
columnist before he was appointed education minister and he too had
occasionally lamented the state of education in our country. I wished he
would achieve something tangible this time. However, the second quarter
of another year is beginning soon, yet I’ve not heard any pronouncement
on the way forward. Except that I’ve recently read where Adamu said
they’re considering jailing parents who refuse to send their children to
school. Adamu and the government he represents should, first,
build many prisons then. And if they could provide free food for their
prisoners, many would be willing to surrender themselves for the
punishment even before committing the crime! There will be many
mutations of Boko Haram, so long as schools ignore the core message of
the original Boko Haram. Many Lake Chads have dried up or are drying up
for millions of school leavers in most of Africa and some poor nations
of Asia and Latin America, as industries that should absorb them have
closed or are closing. Schools that are pumping out millions of young
people every year without preparing them for the workplace or assuring
they would have a place to stand are setting the stage for more wars:
struggles for opportunities are inevitable. •Nwamu, a book editor, is the CEO of Eyeway.ng. +234-8054100220 (SMS/WhatsApp only)