By Hussaina Yakubu Kaduna – The United States Ambassador to Nigeria, Stuart Symington, has called for peaceful gubernatorial election in Kaduna State on Saturday, March 9. The US envoy stated this on Monday in Kaduna in an interview shortly after a meeting with Gov. Nasiru El-Rufa’i. The ambassador said he was in Kaduna again with the simple message of
reminding citizens to remain peaceful after the Governorship and State
House of Assembly elections. He stressed that what is required ”when the election is over and people look back on it, is saying things akin to joy and love.” Symington said that democracy was more than just about elections but its aftermath. “Just like the slogan said by people in different ways, ‘vote don’t fight or elections are not war,” he stressed. He added that election was a partnership which should not just be
between people and government but people and each other, saying that its
the community that binds the State or Nation as one. In a separate interview, Gov. Nasiru El-Rufa’i said though the
upcoming elections were on local issues, the ambassador’s message of
peace was enduring. El-Rufa’i urged the people to disappoint the nay sayers by conducting
themselves peacefully during the Saturday Gubernatorial and State
Assembly elections. He thanked the people for their peaceful conduct during the
Presidential and National Assembly elections in the state, despite
series of conflicts before the polls. The governor appealed for calm before, during and after the polls,
and urged the people to emphasise on their common humanity rather than
some primordial considerations. El-Rufa’i also urged the electorate to come out in their numbers on Saturday and vote peacefully. The governor also prayed for God’s best candidate who will take
Kaduna to the path of development and progress, to win the election. By Nicholas Dechi Makurdi - Atiku Abubakar, the Presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party… By Mohammad Tijjani Kaduna - The Police Command in Kaduna State on Saturday said that… Idowu Gabriel Ado-Ekiti - The Ekiti State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has…