By Ismaila Chafe Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari says his administration will partner with the organized labour to ensure that the country remains peaceful, prosperous and corruption-free. The president stated this when he received leadership of the
organized labour led by the national chairman of the Nigeria Labour
Congress (NLC), Mr Ayuba Wabba, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on
Thursday. The labour leaders were in the presidential villa to felicitate with the president on his electoral victory. President Buhari reiterated the determination of his administration
to remain focused in its core pillars of securing the country,
transforming the economy and fighting against corruption. “We cannot afford to go back to the days of violence and mayhem. “By the grace of God, majority of Nigerians have given me another four-year tenure to continue pushing our Change Agenda. “We will remain focus in our core pillars of reform – security, economy and fight against corruption. “I want to assure you, we as government will partner with all of you
to ensure the next four years will be peaceful, prosperous and
corruption-free. “I therefore look forward to receiving all your written proposals and
submissions on how we can partner together to achieve these goals,’’ he
said. The president stated that the current administration met a country with dilapidated infrastructure all round in 2015. According to him, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) still owes
Nigerians explanation on how it expended the humongous resources that
accrued to the country from oil sales between 1999 and 2014. While recalling the negotiations that led to the approval of the
N30,000 minimum wage, President Buhari said he had to ask the Minister
of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige, to remind the workers what his
administration met on ground and what it has been able to achieve with
minimal resources. “During your negotiation with the minister of labour and when he
briefed us in council (Federal Executive Council) on N30,000 minimum
wage. I gave an analogy of a mad woman, who went to fetch firewood but
then she realized it was too heavy for her to carry, instead of reducing
it, she added more. “I said, we are struggling to survive as a nation. You (workers) knew
what this country was earnings between 2009 and 2015, you knew the
state of infrastructure when we came in, God gave them (PDP) 16 years of
unprecedented earnings. “Multiply 2.1 million by 100 dollars by 16 years. I don’t think the
PDP has been able to successfully explain to Nigerians what they did
with that money. Because some of the roads especially the main ones,
from here to Onitsha, to Port Harcourt since PTF days not to talk of new
ones…monies they earned from petroleum in 16 years. “You know the rail was virtually gone and power, I asked where is the
power? They spent $16 billion on power and Nigerians are asking, where
is the power? It was unprecedented, irresponsible expenditure. “Most of you are unanswerable to Nigerians, I appealed to you through
our mutual friend, the minister of labour to tell you where we found
the country, where we are, and what we have been able to do with the
resources available to us,’’ he said. He, therefore, called on the organized labour to show more
understanding, and to support his administration’s efforts toward
transforming the nation. The President thanked the organized labour “for the support and
patriotism you have shown during the presidential election, especially
after the unexpected postponement. “You and your members stepped in to support willing Nigerians to
exercise their civic and patriotic rights to vote. You intervened as
patriots, and not for political, religious or tribal purposes. You
simply did the right thing during a difficult period for many of us.” In his remarks, Wabba lauded the President for being
workers-friendly, as exemplified in the granting of bailout funds to
state governments to pay backlog of salaries and pensions. He said: “We all remember the special bailout and budget support you
introduced to support state governments during the recession. “Your directive during this intervention was that state governments
must offset accumulated arrears of salaries and pension liabilities. I
Remember you publicly asked state governors, ‘how do you manage to sleep
at night when the salaries of workers in your state are not paid?’ “For us, that was one of the finest moments we have had with any
President in this country…I can stand here today and say your
intervention was the difference between life and death for many
workers.’’ While appealing to the National Assembly to earnestly pass the
National Minimum Wage Act, Wabba also enjoined the President to
thereafter sign it into law within the shortest possible time. The labour leader pledged to remain “veritable partner in progress with government’’. He, therefore, called on the president to continue to “make the
Nigerian people, especially the poor, the centre-piece of your policy
initiatives and actions.’’ Wabba also urged Buhari to inaugurate the Boards of National pension
commission (PENCOM), National Insurance Fund Trust, the Micheal Imoudu
National Institute for Labour Studies and National Labour Advisory
Council. According to him, these institutes are key pillars in Labour-government relations. He expressed the hope that the activation of the boards would “surely
ensure our successes to date are taken to the Next Level. Please be
rest assured we are ready to do our bit.’’(NAN) By Hassana Yakubu Kaduna, - The Supreme Council for Sharia in Nigeria, on Thursday congratulated…  By Ismaila Chafe Abuja - President Muhammadu Buhari has extended heartfelt condolences to the Elebute…