By Muhammad Nur Tijani Kano – The Emir of Kano, Alhaji Muhammadu Sanusi II on Saturday organised a special prayer session at the Kano Central Mosque for Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje’s administration as he is about to enter into his second term in office. The session was attended by District Heads, Chief Imam of Kano, scholars, members of the  State Executive Council, Special Advisers among others.‎ This was contained in a statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Malam Abba Anwar and made available to newsmen on Saturday in Kano. ‎According to the Emir,  the prayer is to seek for Allah’s protection and guidance for the governor’s second term in office and the country as a whole. Sanusi explained that forgiveness was necessary in anything that has to do with governance and social relationship, insisting that “misunderstanding is sometime caused by sycophants. “It is not bad for anyone to hold on to his or her opinion about happenings in the society. But what is necessary is the fact that after election, all people should come together and see to the successful tenure of government in power. “Because of that, it is necessary that Ganduje administration deserves all necessary support and cooperation for the development of our dear state. “We must all come together and make Kano greater. We must work hard and pray incessantly for the rightful development of our state and the nation in general,” the monarch added. Sanusi, who prayed for Allah’s protection from the handiwork of sycophants, also said that political , traditional, religious and leaders of the business community should not allow any misunderstanding come in between them. “Whoever wants to create confusion and misunderstanding between these categories of leadership, is somebody who goes astray. “Such a person doesn’t want the development of our state at all,” he cautioned. While calling on the governor to always investigate any story that goes to him, he explains that, sometime people would just fabricate stories and start spreading rumour, with the intention of causing confusion. “Sometimes some people will do something without your consent. But some individuals will just go ahead and start spreading rumor that it was you who planned for that. While that thing happens without even your knowledge. “So we will keep on praying for a peaceful Kano and for a successful tenure and you to be a leader with large heart, who embraces all.” (NAN )