ONITSHA (Sundiata Post) – The Southeast Based
Coalition of Human Rights (SBCHROS) has said a number of senior lawyers
namely Mr. Olisa Agbakoba SAN, Mr. Femi Fajana SAN, Mr. Festus Keyamo
SAN and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo SAN, should renounce their
commitment to human rights on account of their position on the alleged
rigging of the just-concluded presidential election and the right of the
aggrieved party to seek redress in court.In a statement sent to
Sundiata Post on Wednesday, the group said these senior lawyers should
“disrobe their human rights cassocks” and quit human rights agitation.The
coalition condemned the attempt to intimidate the main opposition
Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to abandon it’s resolve to challenge the
outcome of the February 23 presidential election as announced by the
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).The full statement reads:Election
riggers or those credibly accused of same, especially the masterminds
of the rigged 2019 Presidential Poll in Nigeria must stop sponsoring or
inducing public interest groups or associations and individuals against
the bold and courageous decision of the rigged and their teeming
followers to seek judicial justice in Nigeria. By threatening and
intimidating the rigged (Atiku, Obi, PDP and majority of Nigerians) from
seeking judicial justice, they are being encouraged to resort to
another insurgency or violent uprising in the country or any part
thereof.Time has also come for the above
named “senior comrades” to disrobe their human rights cassocks, take a
glorious bow and leave the epicenter of social conscience in Nigeria.
They are now speaking in tongues very difficult to be understood by
their colleagues and other concerned Nigerians; which are clearly alien
and strange to modern day doctrines of human rights, rule of law,
constitutionalism and democracy. Their probative and reprobative
utterances and opinions have risen to an apogee or highest point of
toleration and saturation.  Alternative to
judicial justice over a conscience hurt dispute anywhere in the world is
express resort to reprisal radicalism including militancy or
insurgency. Unaddressed value crises such as electoral injustice and
suppression of rights to ethnic and religious identities have been
responsible for most armed or violent uprisings around the world. The
Nigerian central Government and its apologists must, therefore, tread
with caution and avoid causing creating and heightening political
tensions including political suppression and intimidation capable of
sliding the country into precipice. Aggrieved parties must not only be
encouraged to resort to judicial justice but also be commended and
supported by Nigerians for doing so.   It is
therefore shocking and surprising that the same central Government of
Nigeria that undemocratically and unconstitutionally suspended the Chief
Justice of the country and appointed his next in command who hurriedly
inaugurated the 2019 Nigerian General Elections Petitions’ Tribunals and
swore in their judges including members of the Presidential Election
Tribunal, could turn around to sponsor or induce groups and individuals;
using the Southwest dominated print and electronic media outfits to
dissuade the rigged from seeking justice through same judicial means. It
is so disheartening and shocking to the extent that petitions have been
sent by the central ruling party to members of the international
community urging them to prevail on the rigged to back off and accept
the crooked poll against their conscience. This is unheard of in the
history of democracy in Nigeria. Those
directly accused of massively rigging the 2019 Presidential Poll in
Nigeria are the trio of the Independent National Electoral Commission,
the APC led Federal Government and the country’s security forces
particularly the Nigerian Army. The sympathisers or apologists of the
rigging are all groups or associations and individuals including
lawyers, labor unions, religious leaders, opposition party candidates
and members of the diplomatic community (i.e. foreign observers and
international congratulatory messengers) that have allied themselves or
joined forces with the APC led central Government of Nigeria to
dissuade, condemn or threaten the rigged from seeking judicial justice.
Their joint silence and refusal to speak or rise in condemnation of the
armada of poll rigging is also conspiratorial. Why Agbakoba, Falana, Osinbajo, Keyamo & Ors Should Disrobe Their Rights Cassocks & LeaveWithout
prejudice to the rights of the above named “senior comrades” to their
freedom of expression and association including personal legal and
political opinions and membership of Nigerian political industry; biases
inherent in their exercise of such rights must always be highlighted
and condemned especially if found to be grossly inconsistent with
languages, signs, symbols and guidelines of the modern day doctrines of
human rights, rule of law, constitutionalism and democracy. The
utterances of the named in recent times especially in matters of the
named doctrines in Nigeria are nothing to write home about; especially
when done using “human rights” as a cover.It
is a settled saying that inconsistency of a man is the worst crime
against his conscience and true conscience of a man is greater than the
iron bars of the prison. It is also an immortal Igbo adage that when a
big masquerade stays too long at entertainment arena without leaving,
then he leaves kids and women with no option than to visit him with jest
making and pouring of sands; having overstayed his welcome. As
a Coalition, we are deeply concerned and worried that the murky waters
of Nigerian politics is about to destroy or consumed, if not already
destroyed or consumed what these “senior comrades” labored for their
lifetime to build and hold for themselves and after their lifetimes. As
a matter of fact, they are now speaking in tongues very difficult to be
understood by focused and unblemished others especially their junior
colleagues in the social struggle, those who joined them after the
military’s inglorious epoch and those that joined lately; jostling to
carry on or takeover from them. They, too, can no longer be understood
by most Nigerians. From the look of things, they appeared to have
reached the saturation point of their stay and relevance in the Nigerian
epicenter of social conscience and, therefore, should take a glorious
bow and leave; so as to retire fully into Nigerian political trading
market and other murky vocations of their own choice.In other words,
they should denounce their human rights involvement, disrobe their
human rights cassocks, publicly bid farewell to their former comrades
and announce their formal retirement into Nigeria’s political trading
market and others.  The truth is that the Nigerian epicenter of social
conscience is no longer receptive of the “human rights languages”,
signs, symbols and opinions of the named. It has gone so bad that their
colleagues and most Nigerians now see their position on issues of “human
rights” as apologetic to the oppressors and their oppressive policies
and conducts; to the extent that what they now call or see as “rule of
law” are rules of the might; and what they now call or see as doctrines
of Nigerian “democracy” are transformative embryos of tyranny and
totalitarianism. These they have continued doing unchecked, causing
heart breeding and psychological traumas to millions who look up to them
as social saints and savers of democracy.  Why We Are Deeply Worried & ConcernedNigerians
have expected the named to, as “human rights lawyers”, “democracy
icons” and “senior defenders” of the Nigerian Judiciary or “SANs” to
speak out boldly or rise in strong condemnation of the widespread
rigging and violence that characterised the 2019 Presidential Poll.
These they have not only refused to do but also turned around and risen
against the seekers of judicial justice over the armada of the electoral
fraud. To the greatest surprise of most, if not all Nigerians and
lovers of democracy and rule of law, the named have gone further to rise
in strong defense of the poll riggers including invocation of
psychological warfare through coordinated campaigns against those
seeking judicial justice and avoiding resort to violent uprising or
insurgency.The named, particularly the duo
of Agbakoba and Falana had also in 2016 mounted fierce media campaigns
against the Executive Governor of Abia State; Okezie Ikpeazu, urging him
to “vacate office with utter immediacy” following a civil judgment by a
Federal High Court over alleged complicity of the governor in tax
fraud. This was even when they knew as senior lawyers and “human rights
icons”  that the governor constitutionally has right of appeal even to
Supreme Court and had not declined to exercise same.The
governor not only refused to be intimidated by their campaigns but also
appealed and won at appellate court and in April 2018, the Supreme
Court went further and dismissed the appeal of his challenger.  Today,
Governor Ikpeazu still remains the Abia governor. Despite the fact that
Gov Ikpeazu is in the black book of the Southeast Rights Coalition
and Intersociety for his conspiracy in the military massacre of hundreds
of unarmed and defenceless citizens of Igbo Nation, but he must not be
ousted or disgraced out of office through the backdoor; a position we
have maintained till date. We therefore call on the named to as a matter
of uttermost immediacy, wear off their human rights cassocks and adorn
themselves with new sacks of the Nigerian murky politics. For
purpose of putting the records straight, Mr. Agbakoba, SAN, had then
said, “by law, Gov Ikpeazu is no longer the Abia Gov and should leave
office immediately” (http://dailypost.ng/2016/07/02/by-law-ikpeazu-is-no-longer-abia-governor-agbakoba/ ) and http://dailypost.ng/2016/07/02/by-law-ikpeazu-is-no-longer-abia-governor-agbakoba/ .   Mr. Femi Falana, too, toed the same line via:https://www.thisdaylive.com/index.php/2016/07/02/ikpeazu-no-longer-abia-governor-by-law-says-agbakoba-falana/ . The Nigerian Supreme Court said otherwise on 12th April 2018 via: https://www.vanguardngr.com/2018/04/abia-s-court-declines-sack-gov-ikpeazu-awards-n4m-cost-appellant/ Again,
following the armada of electoral fraud that massively characterised
the 2019 Presidential Poll, same Olisa Agbakoba, Femi Falana, Yemi
Osinbajo and Festus Keyamo; all SANs and acclaimed “human rights
lawyers” and “democracy icons” not only kept mum but also turned round
and launched media campaigns against the rigged, telling them not to go
to court or how their case had already been lost. Such utterances are
nothing short of lending support to poll rigging and riggers in Nigeria;
particularly the riggers or manipulators of the 2019 Presidential Poll.To Agbakoba, “Atiku’s court case is a waste of time”:  http://dailypost.ng/2019/03/03/atiku-cant-prove-case-court-agbakoba/  andhttps://www.vanguardngr.com/2019/03/olisa-agbakoba-insists-atiku-going-to-court-is-waste-of-time/ .To Falana, “Atiku’s chances of winning in court are tough, etc”: https://thenigerialawyer.com/atikus-chances-of-winning-in-court-are-tough-falana-san/http://dailypost.ng/2019/03/02/buhari-vs-atiku-reacted-pdp-won-presidency-falana/To
Osinbajo, “Buhari (Buhari Government) did not rig the poll but won
based on his outstanding achievements in the past three years and
more”: https://punchng.com/poll-results-osinbajo-justifies-apcs-victory/ .To
some Buhari Campaign Organisations, “we petitioned EU, US, UK, others
against Atiku/PDP to call them to order, advise them to concede and
congratulate the “winner” and stop them from going to court”.Jointly SignedFor: Southeast Based Coalition of Human Rights & Democracy Organisations (SBCHROs) •Emeka Umeagbalasi•Aloysius Emeka Attah•Jerry Chukwuokoro•Prof Justice Chidi•Chidinma Udegbunam Evan APC - 402, 961 PDP - 138, 484 APC - 285, 894 PDP - 218, 207 By Abbas Bamalli Kano - The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kano State has rejected…