… Hails Adeleke for His Statesmanship By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja
(Sundiata Post) – Former President and elder statesman, Dr Olusegun Obasajo has
commended Osun State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal for its courage in
nullifying what he said was clearly an illegality that took place in the state
in 2018. According to
Obasanjo, the action by the judicial officers, albeit a first step in the legal
process, gives renewed confidence in the judiciary at a time when there are
coordinated efforts by some political leaders to undermine , if not destroy it. Obasanjo in
a letter he personally signed, dated 23 March, said he received the news of the
Osun State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal’s judgement while in Dubai
attending the Global Education and Skill Forum Meeting. The former
president who reminded that world is watching us,  informed that what we do or do not do right
in our electoral process will have implications not just for Nigeria but for
Africa  and indeed the world. Adding that
by correcting what was clearly a desperate attempt to change the will of the
Osun peole, the tribunal has saved Nigeria from great embarrassment and started
the process of saving and strengthening our democracy. He therefore
commended Senator Adeleke for his statesmanship in going to court to seek
justice, stressing that it was the right and proper thing to do in any decent
society. “Going to court must be encouraged and not discouraged as some people are
now attempting to do”, he added. Obasanjo who
said he has refrained from commenting on the 2019 elections because one of the
parties has gone to court, emphasized that those who call themselves our development
partners and friends and preach sacrificing justice on the altar of so-called
stability are enemies of justice, democracy and Nigeria. He emphasized that we
will continue to sustain Nigeria in stability and unity on the altar of justice,
equity, fairness, freedom, human rights and democracy. Stability cannot be
successfully built on injustice, corruption, inequity, and divided nation and
incompetence, despotism, and one-sidedness, Obasanjo said. He noted
that Nigeria will match forward with or without those who will want to feed us
with diet of values and actions that are not acceptable in their own countries.
Nigeria is of age. And if Buhari could go to court three times to seek justice,
even without reasonable cause, any Nigerian who feels denied of justice must
feel free to go to court. Obasanjo
therefore said that “Those who have conceived and are promoting the narrative
that if Atiku Abubakar continues to seek legal redress there will be violence,
are evil minds looking for excuse to unleash violence on Nigerians. He reminded
that, at no time in history has sustainable peace been built on theft,
injustice, corruption and inequity. The former president Insisted that these merchants
of chaos and violence should have no place in any decent society. And they must
know that no intimidation or prophesy of violence and doomsday will cow
anybody. Nigeria belongs to all Nigerians. We will respect as friends those who
believe that what is good for their country should be good for Nigeria. Yes, we
are Africans but we have values that are consistent with international
standrads. Court is part of our democratic process and it must be used when
necessary if only to achieve justice, stability unity and progress for our country.