By Stanley Nwanosike Enugu – The Enugu Police Command, on Friday paraded 12 suspects for alleged armed robbery at various locations within two weeks in the state. Briefing newsmen at the Police Headquarters, Enugu, while parading
the suspects, the state’s Commissioner of Police, Mr Balarabe Suleiman,
said the suspects were arrested from Feb 11, when he assumed office in
the state, till date. He said that one AK47 rifle, one pistol, two live cartridges, a
hammer, two chisels, charms with two Toyota cars, a Camry car with Enugu
registration number; ENU 276 RA and a Corolla with registration number
ENSJ 88, were also recovered. Suleiman said the feat was achieved by strengthening and fine-tuning
the existing security structure he met on ground when he assumed office
as the Police Commissioner in the state. He said that once investigations were concluded, the suspects would
be charged to court to get appropriate punishment for their nefarious
activities. “On Feb. 25 at about 12;35 p. m, the police through intelligence information arrested three suspected armed robbers. “They had stolen a Toyota Camry car with registration number, ENU 276
RA, and changed its identity to KJA 10 ES as well as its colour from
Gold to Red. “On Feb. 15, police operatives arrested three suspected robbers, who
operate on Enugu-Port Harcourt Road, using a tricycle. They set sharp
objects that puncture motorists tyres on the road and rob them at gun
point. “On Feb. 14, a robbery suspect, Chinonso Ali, was arrested for using
hammer and locally made pistol to snatch motorcycles within the
outskirts of Enugu metropolis. “While on Feb. 13, another was arrested using fake guns to collect
bags and phones forcefully from ladies, along Railway Crossing in Enugu
during evening hours. “Feb. 27, our operative on patrol arrested two armed robbers and
cultists that steal forcefully and terrorise the entire Ugwu Park in Iva
Valley, Ngwo near Enugu. “And two others were arrested in another location within the outskirts of the metropolis,” he said. Suleiman, however, urged the members of the public especially
journalists to synergise with the command to rid the state of criminals
and trouble makers. “Enugu State is known for peace and security, I and my team have resolved to continue to keep it so. “Criminals and trouble makers should steer clear, as we will not create a space for them to operate here,” he said. (NAN) By Stanley Nwanosike Enugu - The police command in Enugu State has said that it… By Olajide Idowu Osogbo - Mrs Abiodun Ige, the Commissioner of Police in Osun,  on… By Mohammad Tijjina Kaduna - The Kaduna State Police Command on Wednesday warned against reckless…