Abuja
(Sundiata Post)-  The Nembe Chiefs
Council of Nembe Communities of Nembe Local Government Area of Bayelsa State
has sent a protest letter to the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) over
the alleged gross negligence and concealment of the Aiteo Exploration company
operator of the 97 kilometer Nembe Creek Trunk Line (NCTL) that exploded at the
early hours of Saturday, displacing scores of indigenes. The
Nembe Chiefs Council, through its spokesperson, Chief Nengi James Eriworio,
alleged that the refusal of the Oil exploration company to inform the
monitoring authority of NOSDRA and other relevant agencies for verification and
necessary action within two hours of occurrence is an alleged case of
concealment. Chief
Nengi James Eriworio, in the statement, stated that “On behalf of Nembe Chiefs
Council, I wish to call on NNPC to sanction Aiteo Company for concealing a high
level of leakage and a Gas explosion at their Facility at Nembe Creek. It
is an offence by law for an Oil Producing Company not to such an aforesaid
incident to NOSDRA and other relevant agencies for verification and necessary
action” “As a Community (Kingdom), we will not take it kindly for exposing our
indigenes to Environmental and health danger.We will not hesitate to call for
the revocation of Aiteo license.What happened at Nembe Creek near Well 7, 
is unacceptable and seen as a gross abuse of Environmental rules and
regulations. We
urge the Director General of NOSDRA and others to visit the site of the
Incident for confirmation and for the record.” Meanwhile the management of the
Aiteo Exploration Ltd, operator of the 97 kilometer Nembe Creek Trunk Line
(NCTL),in a reaction to the gas explosion  on its crude export pipeline,
said that the resulting fire from the explosion which burned till Saturday has
been put out and no loss of life was recorded. The
incident on NCTL with a capacity of conveying 150,000 barrels of crude daily to
the Bonny oil export terminal will adversely affect crude export haven been put
out of use. A Public Relations Manager of Aiteo, Mr Ndiana-Abasi Mathew
confirmed the incident in a Short Message on Saturday, said “There is no
official statement at the moment but I can can gladly inform you that the fire
has been contained and no lives were lost,” It
will be learnt that the oil export line was shut for emergency repairs
following a leak when the incident occurred and discharged residual crude and
gas trapped in the pipeline. It will be recalled that Shell Petroleum
Development Company (SPDC) in 2015 divested its equity in OML 29 and
transferred its interest in NCTL for $1.7 bn to Aiteo, an indigenous Oil and
Gas Exploration and Production firm Community sources at Nembe in Bayelsa have
bemoaned negative impact of the explosion saying that the incident led to both
gas leakage and oil spill compelling them to flee. Spokesman
of the Nembe Chiefs Council, Chief Nengi James–Eriworio, who confirmed the
development, noted the explosion caused massive destruction of the area with
air and water heavily polluted. “People have deserted the area and the company
has refused to respond despite series of emergency calls to report the incident
to them “As at early morning of Saturday, the fire is still raging. And with
gas and crude leak flowing freely you can then imaging the fate of our people. “The
poor response of Aiteo to this incident is not acceptable and questionable. The
people are traumatized and their health put at risk “James-Eriworio said.
Accoring to him, oil leak from the line had covered the surface of the nearby
river, making it unsafe for navigation and artisanal fishing vocation of the
people James-Eriworio also appealed to the Federal Government and oil industry
regulatory agencies to intervene and investigate and respond to salvage the
people. “We are concerned that Aiteo, despite the
clandestine acquisition of the asset from SPDC without due consultation with
the people has continued to undermine the economic rights of the people.. “We
are worried about the poor incident response and attitude of the company
towards the host communities in Nembe. “They
have abused the rights of the people. We are ready to drag the company before
the National Assembly and the Presidency,” James-Eriworio, said. The explosion,
which occurred at about 4am on Friday near Oil Well 7 on Friday, sacked
indigenes of the affected communities.. The Nembe communities affected include
Nembe creek 1, 2 and 3, Jalungo,Fatuo and Kalablomi in Nembe Local Government
of Bayelsa.. 

Souce: Leadership By Edith Ike- Eboh Abuja - The Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation says it has no… By SundiataPOST, Abuja The Bayelsa State Government says it will soon acquire a 100 megawatts… Abuja - Stakeholders in the Nigerian oil and gas sector says the re-election of President…