By Mohammed Lawal Zaria – Alhaji Fahad Ahmed-Chikaji, a Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) candidate for the Kaduna State House of Assembly, on Sunday conceded defeat and congratulated the winner of the election, Aminu Shagali, the current Speaker of the assembly. Fahad-Chikaji, who contested in the election to represent Sabongari
constituency, stated this in an interview with the News Agency of
Nigeria (NAN) in Zaria. He said the decision to accept defeat was informed by his desire to
exhibit the spirit of sportsmanship and for peace to prevail. “I want to use this medium to first of all thank my Creator, there is
no one worthy of adoration except Allah (SWT) who is the supreme
architect of the universe and earth. “He knows what is best for me and the people of Sabongari, therefore,
my humble self, my family and my campaign team have decided to uphold
the outcome of the  just concluded  state Assembly election. “May God Almighty make it the best for the people of Sabongari in particular and Kaduna State at large. ” Therefore, I wish to congratulate the winner and Speaker, Kaduna
State House of Assembly, Aminu Abdullahi Shagali for the victory.” Fahad-Chikaji said now that the election was over, he would focus on  youths empowerment to groom them to become self-employed. “Now that the election is over, I will continue with my normal
business of youth empowerment, training, sensitisation and enlightenment
on drug abuse and other social vices. “I want a situation where our youths will be trained in different
skills to enable them become employers of labour instead of waiting for
white collar jobs, which is very rare to come by,” he noted. The PRP candidate appreciated the entire people of the constituency
for their resilience, determination, courage and their coming out
en-mass to exercise their franchise, and urged them to sustain the
tempo. “I thank you all for turning out en-mass for the March 9
gubernatorial and house of assembly elections. I congratulate all of you
for your enthusiasm and peaceful conduct which led to successful
elections,” he said. He also commended the security agencies for playing significant role
in ensuring that the election was peaceful and free of violence. While thanking his PRP colleagues for their support and
understanding, Fahad-Chikaji advised that they should be celebrating
instead of lamenting. According to him, PRP has established a legacy of transparency, holistic internal democracy and guaranteeing democratic freedom.