Nigeria is the world’s fifth largest federation after India, the United
States, Brazil and Russia. Almost 60 years after independence, Nigeria’s
political leadership has rather been incapable or unwilling to make the
necessary effort to respond to the challenges encapsulated in her
peculiar history. This history actually positions the Muhammadu Buhari
presidency at a crucial crossroads from which Nigeria and Africa must be
rescued and reinvented. It’s against this backdrop that the
position of national chairman of a political party should be appreciated
because it carries considerable weight, especially in charting the
course of informed engagements with the critical elements in a
democratic mix. That the inherent power of that office, its
responsibility and authority have been watered down and often caged by
forces out of sync with transformative politics doesn’t mean the
occupant must jettison plucky, principled and disciplined conduct. With
principle, pluck and discipline as watchwords, former governor of Edo
State and national chairman of the governing All Progressives Congress
(APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, is clearly, merrily driving the party
in power. What’s more, this significantly evokes the days of Chief
Meredith Adisa Akinloye, national chairman of the National Party of
Nigeria (NPN) in the Second Republic. It’s worth recalling that
eight months ago, amid contrived internal dissonances and significant
party governance deficits that hobbled the APC, Comrade Oshiomhole, was
elected into the position of national chairman to rein in the unseemly
dissidence and provide a new trajectory. As it were, in a season of
partisan rage, with many red-eyed politicians focused on various
power-grab projects often dressed up as patriotic ventures, discipline,
party supremacy and rule-governed processes had become threatened. Many
APC members then were already losing faith in the party. That
might  have been understandable; but history shows that mere loss of
faith, a pathway to surrender, is taking the easy course. The path of
courage was to interrogate the party leadership’s vision and related
issues that encumbered the party, using reasoned, temperate logic,
courage and candour. Next was to offer alternative vision and strategies
to resolve extant dilemma and clear the fog. This was the path
Oshiomhole chose and is walking. Although much of the internal
political landmines that ruffled APC primaries were laid well before his
ascendancy as national chairman, instructively, he was never heard to
grumble about these but set about defining a new direction. That is
leadership. Like other leaders of note, Oshiomhole disdains hazy
journeys and consequently prefers to define a direction clearly. Without
buck-passing, he seized the bull by the horns. Before his coming, the
governors had hijacked the party, creating serious crisis between
governors and National Assembly members in their states. Oshiomhole
decided to hand over the party to the people so as to bring the party
back to life. He introduced direct mode of primary election so as
to deepen democracy and ensure that the masses produce candidates of
their choice not that of the godfathers.  Apart from the fact that the
direct primary election gave party members the feeling of belonging, it
helped in checking the numerous legal issues which arose during the
congresses held by the NWC before his. To a large extent, direct
primary election was a huge success apart from states where the
governors were hell-bent on producing their successors against the
wishes of party members in their states. Oshiomhole changed the
narrative such that the common party members and not the governors or
leaders are the supreme commanders. In no small way, this gung-ho
approach played a crucial role in APC’s victory in one of the keenest
presidential electoral contests in the nation’s history on Saturday,
February 23.  APC’s candidate, President Muhammadu Buhari defeated
Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, former vice president and candidate of the
opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), with 15,191,847 to 11,262,978
votes. Little wonder, a hugely grateful Buhari specifically commended
Oshiomhole, in his post-victory speech, in Abuja. By effectively
overhauling the party’s internal governance template and processes and
resolutely standing down party spoil-sports, the APC national chairman
simply proved he is indeed a transcendent command room guru. Without the
enforcement of party discipline, a political party’s journey becomes an
unduly hazardous enterprise. Oshiomhole made it clear that the era of
petulant, rambunctious anti-party intrigues to achieve personal
interests were over. To the inimitable public orator, members of
the APC must submit to orderly, disciplined conduct and use prescribed
channels to seek redress of any grievances. He unambiguously signaled a
total break from the old way of doing things to help reposition the
ruling party and align it with 21st Century best practices. It
is instructive that moving forward in the task of consolidating the
APC’s leading edge, Oshiomhole is initiating a comprehensive,
computerised membership data-base that would make it much easier to peg
real members and ensure they are meeting party membership obligations.
His moves not surprisingly, spawned internal resistance. But Oshiomhole
quickly reminded his party stakeholders that the dinosaurs died out
because they could not work smart and adapt quickly to critical changes
in their environment then. Even when some miffed APC governors
went as far as weaponising dissent, Oshiomhole never backed down.
Drawing from a history of tough, diverse labour and political
engagements, Oshiomhole unquestionably has provided nimble guidance,
intellectual spunk and bold party governance leadership for the ruling
APC. It’s worth recalling that significant, unresolved deficits in these
areas led to the sacking of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP,
from power in the 2015 poll and its rejection again in 2019. Tracking
back, on Saturday, February 23, Nigerians stood at a uniquely crucial
moment in their history, a time they must choose their future. Given
that all generations face complex, interconnected challenges, Nigerians
had a historic opportunity to support the change that has already gained
root, in the electoral choice they made on that day. February 23 was
indeed a moment in time when something big, something transformative –
already happening – could continue. Nigerians made their choice
by returning President Muhammadu Buhari for a second presidential term.
The Buhari victory of course was actualised not by one individual but by
many committed stakeholders. But it is not out of place to single out
Comrade Oshiomhole, the APC national chairman, as a key pivotal figure
in the big picture. Clearly, Oshiomhole may not be a saint.
There is no need to fret. It is a fact that the parameters for electing
the national chairmen of political parties in Nigeria do not specify
sainthood as a key requirement. His choice, simply acknowledges the
capacity of focused individuals to change their society for the better.
For decades, both as labour leader and politician, he has provided
clear, pragmatic leadership during periods of self-doubt by a challenged
citizenry. He has apparently enlisted that alchemy as an
untiring catalyst for progressive change to transform the APC, force the
opposition PDP to revise its gratuitous assumptions and finally hugely
aid the reelection of President Buhari. Where are his famous dancing
shoes? Ask the peoples’ Comrade! •Hon. Obahiagbon, the son of Igodomigodo, contributed this piece from Benin.