Brussels – EU member states on Monday said that they were adding seven Syrian government ministers to a list of individuals subjected to an asset freeze and travel ban since the Syrian war began in 2011. The addition brings the full count to 277 individuals, who are
“responsible for the violent repression against the civilian population
in Syria. “The individuals were benefiting from or supporting the regime,
and/or being associated with such persons,” a statement from the Council
of the EU noted. In addition, 72 entities are subjected to an asset freeze by the EU. Syria also faces an oil embargo, export bans on arms and sensitive technology, and other restrictive measures. The announcement, issued in the EU’s Official Journal, is effective on Monday. The seven new names on the list are all government ministers, who
were appointed in November 2018 following a cabinet reshuffle by Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad. They include the interior, housing, communications and industry portfolios. The EU has also targeted Syria’s chemical weapons capabilities. In January, it imposed new sanctions on Syria’s Scientific Studies
and Research Centre, holding it “responsible for the development and
production of chemical weapons,” as well as on five officials “directly
involved” in its activities. The announcement precedes an EU-UN conference on Syria in Brussels on
March 12-14, where leaders will focus on the refugee crisis,
humanitarian aid and support for the UN-lead peace process. In another development, Jordan on Monday decided to allow Jordanian
airlines to resume using Syrian airspace for their flights, the
state-run Petra news agency reported. Jordan Civil Aviation Regulatory Commission said it allowed the
airlines to resume using the Syrian airspace after they look into the
situation. Jordanian airlines flights using Syrian space were suspended in 2012. The commission said airlines wishing to use Syrian airspace needed to
provide a study of assessments of risks and which routes and altitudes
they seek to use, according to Petra. The commission added that it was still assessing the conditions of Syrian airports, especially Damascus airport. Royal Jordanian officials said they were aware of the commission’s
decision, but the airline did not take a decision in this regard. The Royal Jordanian said on its social account page that it would assess the situation before any decision in this regard. It is noteworthy that Jordanian airlines currently use Egyptian
airspace to head to Beirut and use the Israeli airspace to head to
Turkey. (dpa/NAN) UNITED NATIONS - The United Nations (UN) on Tuesday in New York said it has… Abdullahi Shugaba Dutse - A Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in jigawa, Alhaji… Brussels - The European Union needs to protect aviation workers from exploitation, the European Commission…