Lagos – An American Surgeon based in Lagos Nigeria has taken to her heels after killing a Nigeria Beauty Queen in a failed fat transfer surgery for buttocks and hips enlargement. The Face of Democracy Transformation 2013 Winner Onwuzuligbo Nneka Miriam has died on February 3rd after a 31days coma from December 30th when the surgical operation was proceeded. According to investigations The American uncertified Surgeon, Dr. Anu proceeded on the fat transfer surgery at her Med Contour Cosmetic Surgery after having several cases and records of surgery failures and complications. Infact, recently two top Lagos Big Babes have been victims of her
misplaced professional ethics and operations, which led to improper
shift of their buttocks during the surgeries conducted by Dr. Anu. The surgery went soar, when fats that where meant to be transferred
to her hips got into her lungs and caused her to drift into coma, even
after she was immediately rushed to Vedic Hospital in Lekki, where she
was placed on life support, before she was transferred to Lagos
University Teaching Hospital, which was where she died 32 days after
while in coma. The organiser of Face of Democracy Nigeria Pageant, Alexander
Ajagbonno has expressed regrets and bitterness over the loss of Queen
Miriam Onwuzuligbo, who was the 2nd runner-up in the 2013 edition of Face of Democracy
Nigeria, an outcome which the deceased refused to accept claiming that
she merited the 1st crown. She dragged the organisers to court for legal interventions until last year when the case was finally dismissed. The death of Queen Miriam may be disheartening, but also a lesson to other young
ladies, who would not carry out critical research in a particular clinic
before engaging them in such sensitive services. The American citizen, Dr. Anu has had several professional scandals,
ranging from poorly conducted surgeries to complications as a medical
practitioner. However, since the last failed surgery on Queen Nneka, she halted all
activities on social media including her 43k followers Instagram handle
@med_contour, where she was use to posting frequently. Research shows
that she may be in hiding. What are your thoughts on this? Kindly leave a comment