By Modupe OremuleLagos. -. PpOmatseye Nesiama, an International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) licensed Manager, on Sunday said that Nigeria and the West African have the potentials to excel in cross-country race. Nesiama, who attended the IAAF/Mikkeller World Cross Country championships in Aarhus, Denmark, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that he hoped to introduce the event in Nigeria and West Africa. The championships held on March 30. “I want to make Nigerians, the West African and indeed the corporate world develop the culture of athletics through participation, one way or the other in cross-country. “We may not be a country known for cross-country, but there is no country that has monopoly of event in athletics or indeed any sport. “Nigeria is a great country with potentials to excel in every good area of life. All that it requires is a personality with clear vision and determination to drive the process,’’ the IAAF manager said. He said Nigeria and Africa region have the wherewithal to organise cross country events in terms of terrain, athletes and finance. “I have attended cross country seminars and events in Europe. “I can assure that with my experience, I have a clear idea of what to do and I am very determined to drive the process,’’ he said. Nesiama, a former Technical Director, Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) and Confederation of African Athletics (CAA) International Technical Official, said that he intended working with the AFN to actualise the project. The CAA Technical and Competitions Commission member said that attending such competitions had helped him garner valuable lessons in terms of athletes’ assessment and conditioning. “I have learnt great lessons; this is the second cross country championships I will be attending in Europe. First, was the European Championships years ago and now this. “Both have brought up different valuable experiences for me. Apart from the fact that it is being pushed to be included as an event in the Olympics. “Cross country helps to prepare all categories of athletes for the penultimate season. In addition, it provides a veritable platform for athletes’ assessment and conditioning,’’ he said. Nesiama added that he was able to study the different areas of interest that could make or mar the successful staging of the event. “Since, I was on my own without the usual distraction that comes with leading a competing team. “I was able to concentrate and study the different areas of interest that can make or mar successful staging of the event. “My attending this particular Championship was simply a reinforcement of an earlier developed zeal and no doubt was a great experience,’’ he said. Nesiama noted the advantages of adopting cross country in the region, as including supporting the new thinking in athletics to get more follower-ship for the sports. He added that it also provided opportunity for a closer interaction of the athletes with the spectators as most parts of the cross country course were accessible to spectators and fans. “I have critically looked into cross country to foresee its success in Nigeria and West Africa. “I really did not introduce race walk in Nigeria but while I was the Technical Director of AFN, I saw a clear path we can follow to establish ourselves in events other than the sprints and jumps. “One of such was the Race Walk, against all odds; we made podium finishes at the Africa Youths and Junior Championships. “Now, I have looked carefully at the cross country event and I can see us doing well in it,’’ the ex-AFN technical director said. Cross country running is a sport in which teams and individuals run a race on open-air courses over natural terrain such as dirt or grass. The course, typically 4 kilometers to 12 kilometers may include surfaces of grass and earth, pass through woodlands and open country, and include hills, flat ground and sometimes gravel road. It is both an individual and a team sport; runners are judged on individual times and teams by a points-scoring method. Both men and women of all ages compete in cross country, which usually takes place during autumn and winter. It can also take place in weather conditions of rain, sleet, snow or hail, and a wide range of temperatures.