Caracas, – Venezuelans woke up to a fourth day of an unprecedented nationwide blackout on Sunday, leaving residents concerned about the impacts of the lack of electricity on the South American country’s health, communications and transport systems. President Nicolas Maduro has blamed the blackout on an act of
“sabotage’’by the U.S. at the Guri hydroelectric dam, but experts say it
is the outcome of years of underinvestment. Guaido invoked the constitution to assume an interim presidency in
January, arguing that Maduro’s 2018 re-election was fraudulent. Guaido has been recognised as Venezuela’s legitimate leader by the U.S. and most Western countries.
In spite pressure from frequent opposition marches and U.S. sanctions on
the country’s vital oil sector, Maduro is not open to negotiations on
ending the political impasse and seems intent on trying to stay put,
said Elliott Abrams, the Trump administration’s envoy for Venezuela. The blackout, which began on Thursday afternoon, increased
frustration among Venezuelans already suffering widespread food and
medicine shortages, as the once-prosperous OPEC nation’s economy suffers
a hyperinflationary collapse. Food rotted in refrigerators, people walked for miles to work with
the Caracas subway down, and relatives abroad anxiously waited for
updates from family members with telephone and internet signals
intermittent. “What can you do without electricity?” said Leonel Gutierrez, a
47-year-old systems technician, as he carried his six-month-old daughter
on his way to buy groceries. “The food we have has gone bad.” At hospitals, the lack of power combined with the absence or poor
performance of backup generators led to the death of 17 patients across
the country, NGO Doctors for Health said on Saturday. Reuters was unable to independently verify the figure, and the
government’s Information Ministry did not respond to requests for
comment. Power returned briefly to parts of Caracas and other cities on Friday, but went out again around midday on Saturday. The outage is by far the longest in decades. In 2013, Caracas and 17 of the country’s 23 states were hit by a
six-hour blackout, while in 2018 eight states suffered a 10-hour power
outage, government officials said at the time.