By Moses Omorogieva Lagos – The Commissioner of Police in Lagos State, Mr Zubairu Muazu, has warned transport unions in the state against being agents of destabilisation during and after the  March 9  elections. Muazu gave the warning on Friday while meeting with all transport
unions alongside Area Commanders and Divisional Police Officers in
Lagos. He said the meeting became necessary in view of the disturbing
activities of some members of the transport unions, particularly, the
motorcyclists who disregarded the restriction during elections. “Don’t allow your members to be used by politicians to cause problems in Lagos. “Let them come out on election day to vote and go back home. On March 9, it is going to be total restriction. “All the transport leaders here should go back to their members and tell them to be law abiding,” he advised. Muazu also sent strong signals to the officers and men in Lagos
police command, warning that anyone involved in unprofessional conduct
would have him to contend with personally. The Deputy Commissioner of Police, Operations, Mr Mohammed Ali,
called on commercial motorcyclists, popularly known as ‘Okada’ riders,
to warn their members against flouting government directives. Ali said the command was not happy with the riders who disobeyed the
restriction order, blaming them and the Odu’a Peoples Congress (OPC) for
the crisis at Okota during the Presidential/National Assembly
elections. “Okada riders, call your members after this meeting and talk to them. “The command was not pleased with them for not obeying the Federal Government restriction on election day. “Many okada riders were on the road as if there was no order on movement. “Ballot box snatching and disruption of election in some areas were done by people on Okada. “Go to your polling unit and vote without riding Okada,” he said. According to him, the coming governorship election will not be the same like the presidential. “We are warning now, so that on election day, any Okada found
operating will be seized forever and the rider arrested for violating
restriction of movement. “For OPC, the leaders should talk to their members. If they want to
vote, they are free to go to their units and do so peaceful and return
home. ” But for the way we managed the Okota crisis on Feb. 23, the issue would have degenerated into a big problem. “We are here because there is peace. It is only in a peaceful
atmosphere that election can hold.We are partners in progress,” he said. Ali told the transporters to talk to their members to always be on the side of the law. “If anyone is caught violating any law during and after the elections, that person will have himself to blame, “ he warned. Ali also urged the transporters to  be timely in furnishing the
police with useful information, particularly during the elections. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that representatives of
National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), motorcycle and
tricycle associations, among others, were present at the meeting. They all agreed to take the CP’s message to their members, while they
also advised him on some steps to take, in order to have a hitch-free
gubernatorial election and crime-free Lagos. (NAN) By Moses Omorogieva Lagos - The commissioner of police in Lagos State, Mr Zubairu Muazu,… APC - 402, 961 PDP - 138, 484 APC - 285, 894 PDP - 218, 207