By Raji Rasak Badagry (Lagos State) – Mr Babatunde Hunpe, House of Representatives member-elect, has promised that the people of Badagry would vote massively for the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Lagos State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-olu, on Saturday.The rep-elect made the promise during the Badagry Stand for Sanwo-Olu Walk-Through rally on Thursday. Hunpe, who is also Special Adviser to Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode on
Environment, said Badagry residents would deliver their votes for
Sanwo-Olu and other APC candidates in the house of assembly election. “We are here today to ensure that our party candidates for
governorship and house of assembly win the elections with wider margin. “The rally is just an awareness to let our people get prepared for the upcoming March 9 elections. “Let me assure the leadership of the party that as Badagry residents
had done it for President Muhammadu Buhari and myself during Feb. 23
election, we will deliver Badagry for APC. “With the support of God, help of party leaders and the entire
residents of Badagry, we will deliver the votes in the coastal city to
Sanwo-Olu and the two members of Lagos State House of Assembly (LAHA). “Victory will be ours come March 9,” he said. The APC member-elect urged the residents of Badagry to come out en masse and cast their votes for the party. Addressing the crowd, Hon. Ibrahim Layode, a member of LAHA who is
re-contesting the election, urged the residents to cast their votes for
APC candidates on March 9. Layode assured the people that they would continue to enjoy the dividends of democracy if voted back into office. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the rally was
coordinated by the Badagry Local Government Chairman, Onilude Segun and
the two Local Council Development Areas chairmen, Hon Gbenu Henugbe and
Hon Samson Olatunde. (NAN) By Emmanuel Oloniruha Abuja - The Transformation Ambassadors of Nigeria (TAN) has endorsed Mr Babajide… By Florence Onuegbu Lagos - The Association of Waste Managers of Nigeria (AWAM) has said… 