By Grace Alegba Lagos – Party loyalists of the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola, on Wednesday in Surulere area of Lagos took its campaign rally round the council to rally support for the All Progressive Congress (APC). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the supporters from two
wards namely the Ward G I and Ward G 2, carried a large banner with
pictures of APC candidates and that of Fashola. The supporters with the banner that has the inscription “BRF for
Sanwo-Olu, “Let’s Work for a greater Lagos”, drummed and danced as the
campaign train moved from Shitta Roundabout to other parts of Surulere
Local Government are to canvass votes for APC candidates. Alhaji Olayiwola Niniola, one of the APC party leaders in Surulere
Ward G I, told journalists the rally was convened to dispel rumors
making the rounds about Fashola’s position on Sanwo-Olu’s candidature as
well as mobilise support for the APC. “We are gathered here to counter the rumour which so many were
peddling about our captain, Mr Babatunde Raji Fashola (SAN), Minister of
Power, Works and Housing that he did not support Sanwo-Olu and his
running mate. “That is why we have come out in full force to show people that
Sanwo-Olu is our man, his running mate is our man, we are supporting
them with all our efforts. “That is why we have come out en mass to show them our support to counter the rumours they are peddling,” he said. He said that Constituency G I also won the area for the APC during
the recently concluded elections which returned President Muhammadu and
Femi Gbajabiamila to power. He appealed to residents of Surulere and other parts of Lagos to come
out en mass to vote for the candidates of the APC in Saturday’s
election. Alhaja Risikat Kekere-Ekun, a leader in the Ward G 2 said that
contrary to widespread speculations, the APC did not lose Surulere
Constituency 2 during the Presidential and National Assembly elections. She pledged the support of the ward for the emergence of APC
candidates whom Fashola was supporting in Saturday’s governorship and
state House of Assembly elections. “We will work hard and counsel our people to come out en mass to cast their votes for our party, APC,” she said. Alhaji Abdulwaheed Abdulazeez, who identified himself as the Chairman
of all chairmen in Surulere Local Government, urged residents to shun
ethnic sentiments and vote for Sanwo-Olu and all the other All
Progressive Congress (APC) candidates. “We have gathered here today in support of our governorship
candidate, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his running mate, Dr Obafemi Hamzat
and at the same time for all House of Assembly candidates. “Our message to every one is that they should come out and vote for
APC en mass because we have no other state but Lagos. The last election
was based on tribalism and sentiments but this one should be different. “We are living here in Lagos, making our money here, we should
support the government that is doing well. There should be not be
discrimination in this election. Every body should come out and vote for
the APC,” he said. (NAN) By Lucy Osuizigbo Lago - The Lagos State Deputy Governor, Dr Idiat Adebule, has urged… The All Progressives Congress (APC) National Working Committee (NWC) has suspended Governors Ibikunle Amosun of… 