Singapore – Oil prices were on Wednesday weighed down by economic growth concerns that dampened the outlook for fuel consumption, but supported by voluntary supply cuts led by producer club OPEC and by U.S. sanctions against Iran and Venezuela. International Brent crude oil futures were at 67.55 dollars a barrel
at 0432 GMT, down six cents, or 0.1 per cent, from their last close.
Brent on Tuesday touched its highest since Nov. 16, 2018 at 68.20
dollars a barrel. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures were at 58.92
dollars per barrel, down 11 cents, or 0.2 per cent, from their previous
settlement. WTI on Tuesday reached its strongest level since Nov. 12 at
59.57 dollars a barrel. Analysts said an economic slowdown could soon dent fuel consumption. “Global growth concerns and ongoing oversupply fears (are) creating
headwinds for the commodity,” said Lukman Otunuga, analyst at futures
brokerage FXTM. Asian business confidence held near three-year lows in the first
quarter as a U.S.-China trade dispute dragged on, pulling down a global
economy that is already on a downward path, a Thomson Reuters/INSEAD
survey found on Wednesday. The dips come after crude prices rose by more than a quarter this
year, pushed up by a pledge led by the Organization of the Petroleum
Exporting Countries (OPEC) to withhold around 1.2 million barrels per
day (bpd) of supply as well as by U.S. sanctions against oil exporters
Iran and Venezuela. “The shaky supply outlook with regard to Venezuela and Iran, as well
as the petro-nations’ output restrictions are top of mind in the oil
market,” said Norbert Ruecker, head of economics at Swiss bank Julius
Baer. Ruecker said oil prices were likely capped around 70 dollars per
barrel as fuel price inflation, as seen last year, would hit demand at
that level. At the same time, he said oil prices were supported above 50 dollars
per barrel as investment into U.S. shale output growth would cease below
that price. Between those price levels, Ruecker said “the U.S. shale boom almost
fully meets global oil demand growth mirrored by the strongly expanding
crude oil exports,” which hit a record 3.6 million bpd in February. “We see … roughly 1.2 million bpd of U.S. shale oil growth over the
coming year,” Ruecker said, which is in line with most global oil demand
growth forecasts of 1 million to 1.3 million barrels per day for 2019. The U.S. Energy Information Administration is due to publish its
weekly crude production and storage level report around 1700 GMT on
Wednesday.