By Edith Ike-Eboh Abuja, – The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) says the re-election of president Muhammadu BuharI will help to facilitate the revamping of the nation’s refineries. Mr Ndu Ughamadu, NNPC Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs
division told the News Agency of Nigeria( NAN)  in Abuja that the
president had been supportive to the corporation. “The reelection of president Buhari is a welcome development to the
corporation. As the Minister of Petroleum he has been very supportive. ” His reelection means that more support will come for the work the corporation is doing. “He has been very supportive with all the work going on in ensuring
the revamping of the three refineries and has directed the corporation
to ensure exploration of oil in the frontier inland basin, ” he said. Ughamadu noted that in product supply, the corporation had witnessed
the president’s support in which the nation had continued to have
adequate supply of products. “In gas production, the president gave the corporation all the
support it needed especially with the Ajeokuta Kaduna Kano(AKK) gas
pipeline project. “For us, his coming back is a welcome development and the industry at large is happy with it,” he said. The NNPC General Manager, Security, Mr Sam Otobueze also said that
the re-election of president Buhari was no doubt a happy survival to
NNPC. “It is a sigh of relief to the staff, burdened by uncertainties of the future, ” he said. Mr Sumaila Abdullahi, an oil marketers told NAN that the re-election
of Buhari for a second term in office would go along way to consolidate
some of the modest gains recorded in the Oil and Gas Industry. “To start with, the stable supply of petroleum products have come to stay and fuel scarcity is now a thing of the past. ” The seven big wins of the Ministry of Petroleum Resources will
definetely be taken to the next level and this stability in policy drive
would boost investor confidence and attract more investors into the
industry. “The re-election of Mr. President will likely boost exploration of Oil and Gas in the frontier inland basins,” he said. (NAN) By Edith Ike- Eboh Abuja - The Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation says it has no… By Olawale Jokotoye Abeokuta - As congratulatory messages continued to pour in from within and… By Gami Tadanyigbe Abuja - Mr John Erokwu, the Chief Executive Officer, Big Mike Foundation,…