By Adenike Ayodele Ikeja – A 28-year-old woman, Amaka Okolie, who allegedly slapped her  ex-stepmother and destroyed her necklace worth N190, 000 during an argument on Monday appeared in an Ikeja Chief Magistrates’ Court Okolie, whose lives on No: 4 Taiwo St., Mafoluku in Oshodi, Lagos, is
charged with two counts of assault and wilful damage but pleaded not
guilty to the charge. The prosecution alleged that the defendant slapped her ex-stepmother,
Mrs Ngozi Okolie, willfully tore her dress and cut her gold necklace
valued at N190, 000, during an argument over the complainant refused to
leave her father’s apartment. Police Sgt. Michael Unah told the court that the defendant committed the offence on Feb. 18 about 8. 40 a. m. at her residence. He added that the defendant wanted the complainant, who was once
married to her father but still occupied a room in their home to leave
but she declined. “The defendant told the complainant that all her father’s property
belonged to her mother because the complainant was no longer married to
her father. “The complainant refused to leave the house, this led to an altercation and the defendant slapped her, ripped her dress and destroyed her gold necklace worth N190, 000,” he said. The offence, he said contravened the provisions of  sections 173 and 339 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State 2015, (Revised). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that both sections prescribe three years imprisonment for offenders. Chief Magistrate A. A Fashola, admitted the defendant to bail in the
sum of N50, 000 bail with one responsible surety in like sum. Fashola ordered that the surety must be gainfully employed with an
evidence of two years tax payment to the Lagos State Government and have
his address verified by the court. The Magistrate adjourned the case until March 20, for mention. Abuja (Sundiata Post) - President of the Federal Court of Appeal, Justice Zainaab Bulkachuwa, has… By NAN An Isheri Magistrates' Court in Lagos on Friday remanded a man who allegedly defrauded… By Ramatu Garba Kano - The Police in Kano State on Tuesday, said it arrested…