By Taiye Olayemi
Lagos, March, 2, 2019 (NAN) Veteran actor, Kehinde
Akiremi popularly known as “Kanran” on Saturday, urged philanthropists,
corporate organisations and private investors to assit him to build a
mega art city.
Akiremi told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos
that he had nursed the ambition of erecting an art city on 72 acres of
land given to him by a philanthropist, Mr Moses Makinde, but had been
financially incapacitated.
He said the land is located at Ado Awaye in Oyo State,
where the only hanging lake in the whole of West Africa is situated, as
there were only two hanging lakes in the world, in Colorado, U.S and Ado
Awaye.
“I want art lovers, philantropists, corporate
organisations, private investors to come to my rescue, so that we can
have a mega art city in Ado Awaye.
“A philanthropist gave us 72 acres of land and I feel
it’s good to invest it in the entertainment industry and for the benefit
of upcoming artistes.
“The art city will afford upcoming artists and renowned
ones the opportunity to shoot their movies in a particular city, we
won’t have to be going to rent people’s houses and this will save us
money,” he said.
He said the 72-acre land had been designed to
accommodate art theatres, luxury houses, where movies could be shot,
hospitals, police station, institute for cinematography, theatre arts
school, music school and more.
According to him, the entire place would be made a city on its own for artistes, who would also be given plots of land to build.
“I want philanthropists to work with me, so that this great dream can be achieved.
“The land has been lying there for years due to lack of funds to actualise the plan,” he said.
The seasoned actor said it was unfortunate that people
and government in this part of the world do not assist artistes while
alive, instead they help them when they fall ill or die.
According to him, there were plans to commence the
development of the project in April, he, however, called on art lovers
who wish to help to inidicate interest, adding that it would be highly
appreciated.
He said with art theatres in place at the art city,
stage theatre would be gradually revived, which is known to relieve
people of psychological and emotional burden.
“One of my aims is to revive the stage theatre, when
people leave their homes to watch stage performances, they get relieved
of their psychological and emotional burdens.
“For me, revival of stage performances is the only solution to eradicating piracy in a place like Nigeria.
“I want people to assist me with this huge project, we,
artistes should be assisted to develop the entertainment industry and
improve on our lives while alive not when we are sick or dead,” he said.
Akiremi said for the institutes of cinematography and
theatre arts, lecturers would be engaged to take students on the
theoretical and practical aspects of the courses, though emphasis would
be more on the practical.
He said that actualising this dream would boost the
nation’s tourism and entertainment industry and also improve on
internally generated revenue. (NAN) By Pulse Indigenous Nigerian rapper, Olamide, has released the artwork for his forthcoming album titled,… By VENTURES AFRICA Africa’s richest man, Aliko Dangote plans to build a $350 million cement…