By Raji Rasak Badagry (Lagos State) – Dosu Olamide, a Primary Five pupil of Our Lady Apostle Primary School along Agbalata Market, Badagry, has emerged winner in the preliminary Spelling Bee Competition. It was organised by he Badagry Local Government and New Era Foundation in the coastal city. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Seweka Avoseh of Gbenopo Primary School 1, Badagry, came second, while Paulinah Umoh of Local Authority Primary School, Badagry, came third. In the Secondary School category, Akeem Akinfenwa of Methodist Senior High School, Badagry, took first position, Sottin Ajose of Topo Senior High School, Topo-Badagry, came second, and Job Oluwatobi of Methodist Senior High School, Badagry, came third. NAN also reports that the competition is aimed at producing a Day Governor of Lagos State. Speaking at the occasion, Mr Segun Onilude, the Chairman, Badagry Local Government, said the competition was to assist pupils in showcasing their talents to discover those that are exceptionally gifted in spelling words. According to him, the competition is for students in public primary and secondary schools in Badagry Division. Onilude, represented by the Secretary to the Local Government, Mr Kamorudeen Ajape, said the competition would help the students to remember and capture what dictionary put as real spelling for each word. He urged the students that participated in the competition to know that all of them could not emerge first in the quiz. “What is important in any competition is the ability to participate, and beyond that, the fun of what they are able to display. “I encourage those that are good to keep being good and those that are not good enough to challenge those that are good. “So, when next you have the opportunity, you will overthrow them,” he said. Onilude commended Sen. Oluremi Tinubu for the good initiative and solid foundation laid down for students in public schools. The chairman said that winner of the competition would represent the coastal town at a grand-finale in Lagos. Also, Mrs Ramotalahi Onilude, commended the teachers in the public schools for their efforts in preparing students for the competition. She urged the participants to work hard to surpass the performance of the participants in the final competition in Lagos. According to her, Miss Rosemary Ogidan of Methodist Senior High School, Badagry, was privileged to become one day Deputy Governor of Lagos State in 2017 when she emerged second position in the final competition in Lagos. (NAN)