LAGOS (Sundiata Post) –  The Worried by the resurgent huge toxic loans in the banking sector, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), Mr. Ahmed Lawan Kuru on Wednesday in Lagos called on the Nigerian authorities to revisit the Failed Banks Act so that operatives in the banking sector would be made to account for their actions, just as he urged banks to immediately strengthen their risk management framework to stem the negative growth. Kuru
who spoke when he played host to officials of Risk Management
Association of Nigeria (RIMAN) at AMCON Lagos office, said the
reintroduction of the Failed Bank Act into the country’s financial
system will not only curtail the current trend of financial rascality on
the part of some bankers, he said it would bring discipline to the
banking industry in general. RIMAN led by its President, Mr. Magnus
Nnoka, CRM, the Chief Risk Officer, Coronation Merchant Bank; were in
AMCON on a business visit. Having been privileged to have been on
both sides of the divide – as a banker and now on the regulatory side,
Kuru explained that given the huge resources that are available to
financial institutions and the pivotal role they play to the development
of the economy makes it mandatory for financial institutions to take
the issues of risk management seriously to prevent what happened during
the global financial crisis. He suggested that in line with the fight
against corruption, there was also need to fight against impaired and
arranged credits so that operators are held responsible for booking
credits contrary to their credit policy, that go bad under their
supervision. Reiterating that one of the reason for the failure
of the banking system during the global financial crisis of 2008/2009,
which eventually led to the creation of AMCON was because of the
prevalence of weak risk management framework by financial institutions,
Kuru said that the trend became a baggage, which contained all sorts of
bad omen for the economy including poor corporate governance structure,
lack of robust risk management strategy and lack of adherence to laid
down principles that govern credit approvals by financial institutions. He
added, “I have been on both sides, therefore, I can authoritatively
comment on issues relating to risk management. Immediately after the
intervention of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in 2009, they insisted
that risk management must be given prominence right from the Board
level to the account officer. What we have noticed now is the lack of
consequent framework to manage the risk structure. We have noticed
prevalence of key men risk. Credits are booked with impunity without any
intentions of being paid. The grievous impunity is taking place along
the credit process. There is the urgent need to revisit the failed bank
act so that operatives become responsible for their actions. We believe
it will bring discipline to the banking industry.” Kuru who said
the damage financial institutions do to the economy when they book
fictitious loans was worse than corruption added, “AMCON is currently
sitting on huge stock of non-performing loan, with banks looking for
liquidity to book more loans. As practitioners, you need to join the
campaign to bring sanity in own credit process. You can clearly see that
the system is skewed towards accommodating large credits, which pose
serious survival challenges to the financial institutions on failure.
Whilst the small credits/SME always require regulatory intervention to
be accommodated. Given what I have seen in AMCON, we must bring both the
obligors and the operators to account for the bad credits.”