Abuja is the home of opulence and luxury living. From the best house
design to the latest ultra modern car model, the Nigerian capital is a
showcase, the city with probably the largest concentration of
millionaires and billionaires in the country. In Abuja, some
schools charge from N300,000 for nursery education and even more for
primary education. In many cases,  secondary education is in the range
of N500,000 per term and above. In the FCT, some elite pride themsleves
for paying millions of naira per term for their wards’ education.They
compete to spend huge sums on equally elitist schools that dotted the
city. Abuja Municipal has four main sections namely Garki, Wuse,
Asokoro and Maitama.The super rich are in Maitama and Asokoro.There,
many schools fees are paid in dollars with  schools charging so
outrageously that you wonder if those parents are Nigerians. In Wuse and
Garki, the super rich are mixed with pseudo elites who clearly are
desperate for any deals to catch up with their fake lifestyles. But
wait. There is nothing wrong in living a good life.The problem here is
that Abuja luxury life is not based on productive ventures and earnings.
Abuja is one city in the world where with a stroke of pen a poor man
can become an overnight millionaire. It is a capital where money making
is based on corrupt deals in government  and private sectors. It is a
place where millions and even billions of naira are made at night clubs
through high profile deals of illegal nature. From the public service
bureacracy to the brief case business leaders, many top residents rely
on slush funds made through illegal means. A man driving a jeep
of almost N200 million cannot explain the source of his
acquisition.People stay in multi-billion naira mansions without any
identifiable means of livelihood. A man paying almost four million naira
per term for school fees cannot justify such lifestyle based on his
paycheck. It is all about a consumption culture built on corrupt
dealings across the establishment. Wait a minute. Abuja is a
place with the best shopping malls in the country. A shopping mall
reporting over a week revealed many shocking things. Abuja elites can
blow as much as N200,000 to N300,000 at a single shopping.The
irrationality of such spending raises question of the sources of  wealth
and finance.  And interestingly, flying abroad to shop for what is not
available in Abuja is not uncommon. In the last four years, this
lifestyle was disrupted. The flow of illicit funds to the public service
and then to the Abuja elite was cut off. Rude shock and consternation
were the consequence as many beneficiaries of the system cannot stomach
such unbelievable change. Many cannot understand why the flow of easy
money stopped so suddenly. It was so bad that when you move round
Maitama and Asokoro,  the change is visible. Many luxurious cars are put
up for sale without any buyers. Many mansions are empty without
tenants. Across the city, auto centres are full of different brands of
vehicles waiting for buyers. The pampered elites are flinging their
assets for any amounts. The real estate sector is feeling the crisis as
buyers are nowhere to be found. And in an era of BVN and TSA,
fund movement from reserves abroad was also a problem. For the first
time, many  super rich were cash strapped. As a result, many shopping
malls are feeling the punch and pinch. Payment of usually outrageous
school fees is becoming a challenge.The schools are reviewing staff
strengths as the parents are seriously joking about need for review of
school fees.The centre indeed is not holding. Now that President
Muhammad Buhari is re-elected, there is definitely not going to be a
respite for the Abuja elite. Forget that Abuja voted against the
President.They did that for self-preservation.The sticky point now is
that the man is back. Confronting all elite in the capital is what is
the appropriate response to Buharinomics. This is critical because a
false material lifestyle based on corrupt dealing is in the long run
unsustainable.The culture is bound to crash anyway irrespective of who
wins the Presidency. The hard truth to face by high flyers and
big boys and girls of Abuja is that it is time to face reality.
Engagement in truly productive venture rather than  under hand corrupt
business deals is the antidote. Now is time to review your children
school programme and financing. If you are earning N400,000 monthly,
does it make sense to be sending your wards to a million naira per term
schools? Does it make sense to be paying rent of almost three
million naira per annum when you can use that to build a small outlet in
the satellite towns? Does it sound reasonable to blow a million naira
at a club in one night waiting afterwards for the next deals? Now that
there is no buyers for the flashy cars, is it not better to review your
cost of living vis a vis your earnings? A lot of radical changes
will happen in the next few months here in Abuja. The private schools
may face tough time surviving unless they realise early enough that the
game is up, that the party has come to an end. Outrageous school fees
can no longer be paid by once opulent parents. Real estate sector
leaders must know that Abuja houses are over priced.The glut has set in
and the prices must come down.The alternative is more security men
letting out luxury homes for cheap unofficial pay!!! For the
public service, the party is not just coming to an end but repercussions
may actually follow. Inability to account for sources of wealth is
likely to send many to jail or out of service. Time is now to agitate
for better pay than to continue the path of corruption. Abuja is
changing and very fast too. Are all these because of
Buharinomics? Many elite in Abuja blame the President. In Abuja, the
sing song is “there is no money in town”. The President’s results from
Abuja could have been worse. But the Daura man is not our problem in
Abuja; it is our fake, false lifestyle. Whether it is Buhari or
not, it is time to get real. Let’s stop the unproductive lifestyle; let
our living mode be within our means. To fellow Abujalites, welcome to the new bitter reality. •Rasheed is Director, ACCI Policy Centre and writes from Abuja