By Chioma Ugboma Lagos – Mr Babatunde Gbadamosi, the governorship candidate of the Action Democratic Party (ADP), says political affiliation will not matter in his administration, if elected. Gbadamosi told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Lagos
that his admistration would engage only the best hands and not
necessarily party members in order to take the state to greater and
desired heights. He said that his administration would form a government of unity that
would de-emphasise political, ethnic, religious and economic divisions
in the state. “I plan a government of unity devoid of political, ethnic, religious and economic divisions in the state. “As a technocrat, I intend to bring in experts who will in turn help
in churning out policies that will benefit all residents of the state,
irrespective of where they come from or where they worship,” he said. The ADP candidate decried the current ethnic bickering in the state,
pointing out that the issue of ethnicity was the bane of development and
unity of Nigeria. He said that it was time Nigeria, and particularly Lagos State being
the centre of excellence, moved beyond mundane issues of tribes and
emulate other climes where capability played major roles in development. Gbadamosi, popularly called BOG, said it was time for change of
governance in the state in order to keep parties on their toes in
delivering dividends of democracy to the people. The governorship candidate also said that he was not bothered by
erroneous belief that no party could beat the ruling party in the state. “Times have changed and Nigerians are getting wiser. People vote now for personalities rather than political parties. “Majority of voters are not political party members. In Lagos which
is an elitist state, most of the electorate vote on personal conviction
in a candidate and not for their parties. “All I ask is for a level playing ground from the Independent
National Electoral Commission (INEC) for all candidates which will go a
long way in acceptance of the election results,” he said. Gbadamosi, however, urged security agencies in the state to remain
apolitical in the governorship and house of assembly elections, billed
for March 9. He also urged residents in the state to vote for the ADP and its candidates in the state at the polls. By Philip Dzeremo Makurdi - Mr Llewellyn Msoo, the Deputy Governorship candidate of the Action… LAGOS - The Lagos State Government on Thursday said that it would channel its available… Armed bandits operating in the North-West axis have set on fire an aircraft belonging to…