By Emmanuel Mogbede Abuja – Malam Nuhu Ribadu, Director of Field Operations Directorate, All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign Council, has assured Nigerians of better living condition in the next four years for re-electing President Muhammadu Buhari. Ribadu, the pioneer Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes
Commission (EFCC), gave the assurance at a thank you reception for
members of the directorate on Friday in Abuja. “We will continue to be happy in the next four years because we have re-elected a good man. “Buhari is a good man, he is genuine, he is a honest and fair gentleman. “He will protect our resources, he will not allow bad people to cheat
us and steal from our commonwealth, he will not, and that is what we
want in a leader. “He will not go and sell Nigeria, he will not sell whatever that we
have, he will not sit with anybody to plot evil or do bad thing, he will
not,” Ribadu said. He added that ahead of the Feb. 23, Presidential and National
Assembly elections, Buhari refused to allow the traditional way of
politicians and did not take advantage of public institutions to achieve
his desire. According to him, Buhari refused to interfere with the Independent
National Electoral Commission (INEC), but rather charged the directorate
to sell APC to Nigerians who have the final say. He added that it was not about money, or intimidation, saying that
Nigerian electorate were given free opportunity and chance to decide and
they decided through their votes. “Ladies and gentlemen, let us be proud of ourselves, we did something
that money cannot buy, we did it honestly and only God can testify to
that,” Ribadu said. He urged members of the directorate to be proud of themselves for
campaigning for President Buhari and the party’s candidates ahead of the
elections, adding that they would be rewarded. He said their reward may not be immediate, but that they would certainly be rewarded. Ribadu, however, said that the general elections were not over,
because the Governorship and State House of Assembly elections were
still ahead. He, therefore, appealed to members of the directorate to go back and
continue to campaign for APC candidates, saying that it was not yet time
to rest until it was over. “We have another election coming up on March 9, it is a very
important election for the party, I want to appeal to all of us, let us
take it as very important. “We have already done a wonderful job and we are capable of doing
that again, the work we are doing is a continuation of supporting
President Buhari because he would need a party that has majority of
states. “He would need more governors so that he can carry on with his work and implement the policies of our party. “The governors would also require our own State House of Assembly members. Governance is about a team work,” Ribadu said. (NAN) By Yakubu Uba Yola - The Director, Field Operations of President Muhammadu Buhari Campaign Organisation,… By Monday Ijeh Abuja - Mr Boss Mustapha, the Secretary to the Government of the… Abuja (Sundiata Post) - There were wild jubilation in Zaria, Kaduna State on Wednesday over…