The dusts generated by the conduct and outcomes of the February 23
Presidential and National Assembly have yet to settle. The reason is
that the presidential candidate of the opposition Peoples Democratic
Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, had indicated his intention to
challenge the outcome of the poll at the Presidential Election Petition
Tribunal. To be sure, Atiku is not the only aggrieved candidate
who is heading to the Tribunal. Many National Assembly candidates who
reportedly lost the election had indicated the same intention.
Therefore, the nation should brace up for legal fireworks within the six
months that the Tribunals will sit. This path is consistent with
the dictates of constitutional democracy that accommodates ventilation
of electoral dissonances at the court of law and not at the court of the
people. In a partisan rage, the people’s court is always susceptible to
extreme reactions. It is largely characterised by ideals on retreat
into the Hobbesian state of nature where jungle justice was an article
of faith and directive principle of survivalist policy. In angst,
people often resort to self-help. Government cannot escape blame for
the unruly actions of the people. Therefore, government must be
proactive in dealing with situations of social insurrection and
political resistance. Otherwise, government would have failed in its
constitutional responsibility of maintaining peace, law and order in the
society. This is why the courts are there to mediate between and among
the governments at the federal and the state levels and the governed in
the context of fidelity to the political and social contract. The
decision by Atiku to seek redress in court is thus commendable. After
all, President Muhammadu Buhari went to court in 2003, 2007 and 2011 to
challenge the outcomes of the presidential elections in which he was
defeated. He did not encourage mass protest in order to make the country
ungovernable. As long as he does not incite social unrest and political
upheaval, Atiku is only following in the footsteps of Buhari. The
Atiku option should be embraced by candidates who are “defeated” in
Saturday’s governorship poll. Once they have their minds and eyes fixed
on legal redress, the propensity for do-or-die approach to the election
will recede and the prospects of forestalling Armageddon in some red
flag states become high. States of concern in the governorship election
are Imo, Ogun, Benue, Rivers, Zamfara, Lagos, Oyo, Delta and Plateau. President
Buhari has responsibility to ensure that life and property are not lost
during the election. Fatalities in the February 23 Presidential and
National Assembly polls were too much. The death of any Nigerian during
an election, not a war, is a sore point and an albatross the government
must bear. Therefore, this government has enough blood stains on its
profile and cannot afford more. Having secured his re-election,
the president should no longer be bound by considerations other than
national interest. If any personal political interest must be promoted,
the president must do so, stricto sensu, within the context of
overarching national interest. In essence, I expect the president to
ensure maximum security in the red flag states to avert theft of
people’s mandates and the loss of lives. By now, I expect the
president would have been on top of security arrangements in the states
of security concern. He should be ready to address the nation on the eve
of the governorship poll to assure anxious Nigerians on measures
deployed in ensuring peaceful election. Besides tasking the
nation’s security apparatchiks to tweak their architecture in order to
effectively cover the entire field, the president should have reduced
the list of flashpoints by taking steps to deal with peculiar situations
in the states and marking them off as resolved. For instance, the
tension in Imo and Ogun states is traceable to the supremacy battle
within the APC. The president should be able to rein in the combatants. Before
the poll, the president should have sent a clear message to Governor
Rochas Okorocha of Imo to ensure he does not work against the interest
of the APC in the state and similarly for Governor Ibikunle Amosun of
Ogun, not to work against the interest of the APC. Significantly, both
Okorocha and Amosun are APC senators-elect. Failing to rein them in, one
can be sure there will be wars in both states by power mongers who
boast of special relationship with the president. The prospects of APC’s
Hope Uzodinma and Dapo Abiodun’s victories in Imo and Osun states
respectively are expected to douse crises in both states. Once
the knotty situations in Imo and Ogun are resolved, there is certainty
that other identified red flag states of Lagos, Benue, Kaduna, Rivers,
Delta, Zamfara and Oyo States will be easily brought under control. In
Lagos, what is expected to foreclose crisis is allowing the Igbo
residents in the state to vote without hindrance. In Benue, any
plot by untoward forces to manipulate the election against the
incumbent, Samuel Ortom, is bound to precipitate crisis. But there are
indications that the APC, under Senator George Akume, will push for the
victory of the party’s governorship candidate, Hon. Emmanuel Jime. Governor
Nasir el-Rufai’s Kaduna State must be watched. Formidable forces have
massed against his re-election. In Rivers, where Governor Nyesom Wike,
practically has no opposition, there are enemies within that have
determined to cause bedlam in the state. It is seemingly in the
character of political leadership in the state to be violent. In
Delta, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s re-election bid will experience
considerable opposition from APC’s Great Ogboru who is targeting votes
haul in Delta South and Central. But the entrenched influence of former
Governor James Ibori is expected to neutralise the Ogboru challenge and
swing victory in favour of Okowa’s Delta North. Ibori has predicated his
support for Okowa’s re-election on the bases of justice and equity.
Delta Central and South, having both enjoyed the governorship position
for sixteen years (two terms apiece), it would only be fair for Delta
North to occupy the position for eight years before it rotates to any of
the other zones. That is the beauty of the Ibori political
intervention. In Oyo, the battle line is drawn between the PDP
and the APC. With about 1000-votes difference between them in the
presidential election, the APC is challenged, especially with the defeat
of the sitting governor, Abiola Ajimobi, in the senatorial election.
While Senator Ahmed Tinubu has deployed his political sagacity and
financial muscle to get former APC leader and governorship candidate of
Action Democratic Party (ADP), Alao Akala, to endorse APC’s candidate,
Adebayo Adelabu; former Governor Rasheed Ladoja has led a coalition to
endorse the PDP candidate, Seyi Makinde. So, it is going to be a
grueling two-horse race in Oyo. There are fears the battle may become
intense and degenerate. Security alert is imperative. Zamfara
State must also be watched. What will play out is local politics between
the APC and the PDP. But there is internal crisis in the APC that could
abort reasonable expectations and precipitate a conflagration in the
state. Therefore, the acting Inspector General of Police,
Mohammed Adamu, should ensure utilitarian deployment in the red flag
states that will cage any potential crisis. The states of security
concern should benefit from deployment of more police officers and other
supporting forces. Peace is a necessity. It is needed more than ever
before in the overall effort to ensure civilian-to-civilian transfer of
power. •Ojeifo contributed this piece via ojwonderngr@yahoo.com