 Nigeria government and the political class
have been accused of not paying adequate attention to women and girl child
empowerment. The Country Director of Plan International
Nigeria, Dr. Hussaini Abdu, in a statement marking the International Women Day
(IWD) 2019 stated that “it is disheartening that both the governments at all
level and the political class has not shown enough commitment to improving the
fortune of Nigerian women and girls”. According to Abdu, “the situation of the
Nigerian woman in relations to access to power and access to policy decision
space has continued to shrink. “While we acknowledge efforts made by some of
the states in the federation to put in place policies that would enhance
protection of women from gender-based violence and other forms of
discrimination, much of these have been in term of paper works and statement of
intention”. Abdu who said that much of the achievements
of the women and girls in recent years are product of their own resilience as
the state has not done enough to provide them adequate space and support to
achieve self-actualisation. “As the world celebrates the International
Women’s Day today, it offers the opportunity to draw attention to the
extraordinary accomplishments of women across all sectors as well as the
extra-ordinary resilience exhibited by the girl-children to thrive in environments
ridden with diverse gender-based barriers. While Plan International Nigeria
believes that these feats should be recognized, encouraged and celebrated every
day; we also advocate for a world where such barriers are eliminated such that
female accomplishments become an acceptable norm rather than the exception to
the rule”, said the Plan Nigeria Country Director Speaking on the theme for the International
Women’s Day 2019 campaign, #BalanceforBetter, Abdu said that the country is
still far from creating the desired balance in access to power for the women in
the country. According to Abdu, “In the just concluded
presidential and national assembly elections, the number of women getting to
electoral positions is notably reducing. This disappointing trend does not only
underscore the fact that political parties across the federation are not giving
enough space to women, but also draws attention to the various forms of
barriers and violence women are subjected to as they seek to exercise their right
to effectively participate in political processes.” Bemoaning the continued existence of
obstacles women face in participation in political arena, he observed that
“when women and girls are actively involved in our local, state and national
planning and decision making processes, they are able to influence policy
directions, provide different perspective to public debates, guide legislative
processes and practices, and even act as role models to other women and girls.”