By Oluwabukola Akanni Ibadan – Prof. Jesse Otegbayo, the Chief Medical Director of the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan,  says cancer remains  one of the three major causes of morbidity and deaths in the hospital in the last three years. Otegbayo said this during the opening ceremony of a three-day workshop organised by the Pharmacy Department of the hospital. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the workshop entitled,  ‘Pharmaceutical Care in Oncology Practice, ’ was to create more awareness on cancer and find ways to address its challenges. The CMD,  who was represented by the Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee, Dr Victor Akinmoladun, said that the other two top causes of morbidity were infectious and cardiovascular related, particularly HIV/AIDS and stroke. According to him, late presentation of patients with cancer to a tertiary hospital contributes to the recorded cancer morbidity and mortality. “Cancer care is multidisciplinary and pharmaceutical oncology is one of the most critical aspects. “It involves diagnosis and therapy;  the hospital management is in full support of this workshop. “ It is very relevant in helping us address some of the challenges of cancer care in the hospital. “The Department of Pharmacy has paid a lots of attention to oncological cases and we hope that the department will become the hub and the foremost in pharmaceutical onlocogy in the country. “A cancer centre is currently under construction to provide ease of access to cancer, clinical care, research and training on cancer and consequently strengthen all aspects of cancer care. “Through this we hope to reduce the country’s cancer burden and ensure the survival of more cancer patients,” he said. In her remarks, the Vice Chancellor of Chrisland University, Abeokuta, Prof. Chinyere Babalola, said that genetically tailored cancer care would help to reduce its morbidity and mortality in the country. Babalola, who  called for increased funding for cancer research in the country, said that pharmacists  play critical roles in increasing successful treatment and survival of cancer patients. “Oncology pharmacists play very crucial role in cancer patients’  care, diagnosis and therapy. “The role of pharmacists is germane to interdisciplinary cancer care. As part of  a multidisciplinary team, an onlocogy pharmacist has major roles in assuring safe and effective drug therapy. “Cancer drugs are toxic with irreversible reactions, pharmacists are needed in cancer patients’  care to maximise benefits and reduce toxicity,” she said. (NAN)