Burnley (UK) – Crystal Palace moved further away from the Premier League relegation zone with a 3-1 win at fellow strugglers Burnley on Saturday. The Londoners puklep the victory thanks to second half goals from Michy Batshuayi and Wilfried Zaha. Palace took the lead in the 15th minute when Jeffrey Schlupp’s
pull-back struck Burnley defender Phil Bardsley and ricocheted into his
own goal. Burnley dominated the rest of the opening half with Chris Wood
forcing a fine reflex save out of Wayne Hennessey with a fierce shot and
the Clarets peppering the Palace box with crosses from deep. But three minutes after the re-start, Palace struck again when
full-back Aaron Wan-Bissaka’s pass was blasted home, first-time, by
Batshuayi. Ashley Barnes then missed a good chance to pull a goal back for the
home side, putting the ball over from two metres out, as Burnley
continued to press. The game followed a similar pattern to the first half with Burnley on top but lacking an edge in the final third.
Palace, as often on the road, were a constant threat on the counter-attack and should have had a third.
A mistake from Ben Mee put Batshuayi through but he pushed the ball too far when trying to round Burnley keeper Tom Heaton. The game was wrapped up in outstanding fashion by Zaha who tormented
the Burnley defence, twisting inside and out, before firing a low shot
past Heaton. A Barnes header gave Burnley a late consolation goal and although
substitute Peter Crouch went close to a second, Palace’s lead was never
in real danger. The South London side are now eight points above the relegation zone and manager Roy Hodgson was well pleased with the showing. “That was a very satisfying performance, it’s never easy to win at Burnley. “They are in good form and we knew the type of problems they would
pose and did pose but we dealt with them extremely well,” said the
former England manager. Burnley manager Sean Dyche said his side’s failure to deliver quality in crucial moments was the key factor. “It’s confusing when you look at the stats — the stats make it look
like a good performance — but we know stats don’t win games,” he said. Burnley are in 16th place, five points above Cardiff City who occupy the highest spot in the relegation zone. (Reuters/NAN) Paris - Two goals from Kylian Mbappe allowed Paris St Germain to come from behind… By NAN The Ekiti Sports Council on Friday in Ado Ekiti urged the U-17 youths…