By Thompson Yamput Jos – Mr Sylvester Chuwang-Davou, a prosecution witness in the N6.3 billion fraud case against Sen. Jonah Jang, has said that the former Plateau governor’s administration borrowed the N2 billion CBN Small and Medium Scale funds to execute projects. “What I know about the N2bn CBN funds meant for
the Plateau Small and Medium Enterprise Development Agency (PLASMEDA),
was that when the funds arrived, the money was transferred into the
ministry of finance to meet urgent state matters. “I was the General Manager of PLASMEDA and can
testify that that was exactly what happened,” Chuwang-Davou, a retired
Perm Secretary, told the Plateau State High Court trying Jang, on
Tuesday in Jos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that the
former PLASMEDA General Manager is the fifth prosecution witness in the
case brought against Jang and Yusuf Pam, a former cashier in the
Plateau Government House. The two accused persons are being tried over the alleged fraud said to have been committed between Sept. 2010 and Oct. 2014. They are facing a 12-count charge bordering on
conspiracy and money laundering allegedly committed when Jang was the
governor of the north-central state. The EFCC, Nigeria’s anti-graft agency, is alleging
that the defendants had conspired to defraud the state of the said
amount (N6.3bn), via illegal acts, contrary to, and punishable under,
sections 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19 of the Money Laundering (Prohibition Act)
2011, as amended. Chuwang-Davou, in his testimony before the
presiding Judge, Justice Daniel Longji, said that the Jang
administration established PLASMEDA in order to access the N2bn loan
from CBN, to develop the small and medium enterprises in the state. “But when the funds hit the account of the state
in Zenith Bank, the ministry of finance borrowed the money to meet what
it said were urgent state matters, which I later learnt was for
execution of projects “Up till when Jang’s administration wound up in
2015, the money was not returned to the account of PLASMEDA and neither
did any Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs), including
Cooperative Societies, benefited from the funds. “This was largely because none of the PFIs did
open an account with the CBN to enable it access the funds for the
purpose it was meant for,’’ Chuwang-Davou explained. When the Prosecuting Counsel, Mr Rotimi Jacobs
(SAN), asked the witness whether Jang was a signatory to either Project
One Account or PLASMEDA, Chuwang-Davou replied in the negative. “Jang wasn’t a signatory to either of the accounts,” he declared. During cross examination, Mr Mike Ezekhome (SAN),
the defence counsel, asked the prosecution witness whether Jang ordered
the N2bn to be transferred into the Project one account instead of
PLASMEDA account, to which he equally replied in the negative. “Not at all. Jang did not,” he said. According to him, the CBN on its own transferred the funds into project one account instead of PLASMEDA account. He further said that it was also the
responsibility of CBN to ensure the meeting up of the criteria toward
accessing the funds by PFIs. “Unfortunately, none of the PFIs even applied to
CBN to access the fund till the administration of Jang ended on May 28,
2015,”’ he said. Ezekhome also asked the witness if he was aware
that the N2bn fund was borrowed by Jang, to which Chuwang-Davou also
replied in the negative. “I never mentioned that money was borrowed by the ex-Governor. Jang did not borrow the money. “I was told by the former Accountant General of
the state that the money (N2 billion), was captured in Jang’s handing
over notes to the present administration. “This is because I kept following up the refund
into the account of PLASMEDA until the end of the administration, but
learnt that there was no funds for such,” the prosecution witness
declared. Justice Longji has adjourned the case to Wednesday, March 6, for continuation of hearing. (NAN) By Idris Olukoya Epe (Lagos State) - Mr Jimi Agbaje, the governorship candidate for Peoples… By Chukwuemeka Opara Abakaliki - The Muslim community in Ebonyi, widows association and market women… Julius Adebulu, an Internal Auditor with the Police Pension Office, on Friday told an FCT High…