Nigeria’s moribund textile industry has received a boost in a Central
Bank of Nigeria policy measure, restricting the sale of foreign exchange
to importers of textiles and other clothing materials in the country.
Announced recently, the directive takes immediate effect. The strategy
is aimed at stimulating economic growth, reviving the sub-sector for job
creation and reducing the current unemployment rate of 23.1 per cent. This is a welcome development, given the $4
billion the country spends annually to import textiles. Unfolding the
plan with key operators in the sector in attendance, the Governor of
CBN, Godwin Emefiele, added that the successful Anchor Borrowers
Programme on rice production would be extended to cotton farmers to help
them produce materials for local industries and the export market.
Besides, the CBN would offer credit at a single-digit interest rate to
enable them “to refit, retool and upgrade their factories.” Bank lending
interest rates for the manufacturing sector, as published by the CBN in
newspapers last week, range from 20 to 42.5 per cent, thus stifling
production capacity increase. Textile manufacturing had collapsed
to the extent that at the dawn of 2018, only 27 textile mills were in
operation, as against the 175 that existed between 1985 and 1991, said
the Minister of State for Industry, Trade and Investment, Aisha
Abubakar. A year after, it further reduced to 25, with less than 20,000
combined workforce, says Emefiele. The minister said, “The significance
of the textile industry and its impact on the nation’s economy is best
illustrated by the fact that, at its height, the sector had created over
800,000 jobs, representing 25 per cent of the total number of jobs in
the manufacturing sector, second only to the government in the
employment of labour.” But buffeted by multi-faceted challenges
in epileptic power supply, difficulty in accessing credit and unstable
foreign exchange rate, all of which culminated in low capacity
utilisation, the sunset for this sub-sectoral economic giant began in
the 1990s. But the influx of cheap Chinese textiles into the country and
vicious activities of smugglers, aided by tainted Customs officials,
crippled Nigeria’s textile manufacturing. In one fell swoop, for
instance, Customs seized N315 billion worth of contraband in Kano in May
2015. Details given by the then Comptroller-General of the Nigeria
Customs Service, Abdullahi Dikko, showed that the seizure was made from
75 warehouses. Each of them had materials valued at N4.2 billion. A few
years earlier, 400 trailer-loads of smuggled textiles were burnt in
Lagos and another 200 in Kano. The ongoing Sino-American tariff
war arising from an attempt by the United States to protect its advanced
economy, exemplifies the fact that responsible nations do not stand
aloof when their economies are deluged by foreign imports.
The BBC reported in December that the US Department of Commerce had so
far carried out 122 investigations into anti-dumping and countervailing
tariff regime valued at $12
billion. On their radar are 31 countries, with China and Canada very
prominent. Therefore, President Muhammadu Buhari’s government should
also engage in critical thinking on how to crush foreign trade obstacles
to achieving the repositioning of our textile industry. For the
CBN intervention to succeed, it must be well-thought-out and followed
through. The success of its credit facility to rice farmers
notwithstanding, it is imperative that the credit scheme extension to
textiles should be guided by the lapses and complaints of beneficiaries
of the N100 billion Cotton Textile and Garment Industry revolving loan,
which began in 2009. With the gross failure of the N300 billion Aviation
Intervention Fund, also released by the CBN and similar polices,
scepticism now trails stimulus packages. About N120 billion of the fund
was reportedly diverted, just as some of the recipient airlines have
either folded up or suspended operations. It is not only through
loans that the CTGI can be incentivised; even more transparent and less
susceptible to abuses are tax moratorium and import duty waivers on
their machinery. The Dangote Cement Plc reaped handsomely from this
policy, according to Forbes.com, as it enjoyed $247 million tax credits in 2018, from its pioneer status on its Ibese and Obajana production lines. Very
encouraging is the CBN’s discussions with the governors of Kano and
Kaduna states – two havens of the textile industry in the country – on
how they could assist in ensuring stable electricity for the renascent
factories, promising to support them in creating production clusters.
This is critical against the backdrop of the revelation by the President
of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, Frank Jacobs, that its
members’ daily electricity demand in February was 14,888 megawatts. This
mismatch between demand and the 5,000MW available for the entire
country is ridiculous. MAN member companies spend N126 billion on gas to
power their generators, and this spikes the cost of production. Forex
restrictions will not be the magic bullet to the textile industry
conundrum in the country until it is matched with a brutal war against
smuggling. This is a tough task for the Hammed Ali-led NCS. Greater
diligence in border control and deployment of technology in Customs
operations will make a lot of difference. This is why the non-use of
scanners or shortage of them in clearing goods at our ports is a well
orchestrated economic sabotage that should engage Buhari’s immediate
attention.    