By Olukayode Babalola Akwanga (Nasarawa) – Gov. Umaru Al-Makura on Wednesday donated some relief materials to victims of communal clash in Akwanga Local Government Area (LGA). Al-Makura, represented by his Deputy, Mr Silas Agara, paid an inspection tour of the affected communities, namely Mante and Nidan in Akwanga LGA of the state. The deputy governor was accompanied by security chiefs, top government officials and the Chun Mada of Mada land, Dr Samson Gamu-Yare. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the communal conflict occurred on Saturday, March 23 between locals of the Mada community and Fulani herdsmen. The State Police Command earlier said that the communal conflict was due to a dispute over the death of a young girl and a Fulani man which led to burning of houses in both communities in reprisal attacks by both parties. The crisis led to the displacement of both Mada locals of the area and Fulani people to nearby Andaha village where the governor’s representative and his entourage held a meeting. Al-Makura, who expressed sadness over the incident called for peace and understanding between the two groups. He urged them to always approach constituted authorities. The governor said that the only way to ensure a peaceful and appropriate resolution of differences was to consult constituted institutions rather than take the laws into their hands. He said the relief materials hurriedly provided by the state government include food items, clothing, mosquito nets, among other basic necessities, geared toward alleviating the suffering of the affected persons. “We quickly brought these items because of the situation you have found yourself and because it is a situation that requires quick intervention. “We have discussed with the chairman of the local government and we are expecting a report from him. “The report will enable us take a proper final stock of what to do and how to appropriately provide succour to all those affected by this crisis. “So I want to assure you all that a proper level of intervention from the government is certain,’’ the governor said. Al-Makura said he was shocked over the incident because Akwanga Local Government Area has always been a peaceful place, hence the call for residents to continue to maintain peace and embrace mutual coexistence. In an interview with newsmen, Dr Samson Gamu-Yare, the Chun Mada of Mada land appealed for peace among the two groups and solicited for proper steps to be taken in resolving the misunderstanding. “Constantly, we will keep appealing for peaceful coexistence because crisis affects not just a few but many. If anyone cheats you, don’t take the laws into your hands. “Approach the appropriate authorities for redress. We thank the governor for coming to see the aftermath of the destruction in the affected communities and to commiserate with us,’’ he said. The Nasarawa State Commissioner of Police, Bola Longe, represented by ACP Umar Nadada, told newsmen that a new template would be improvised to effectively prevent a recurrence of the sad incident. “Since we have come and seen everything that happened, definitely we will come with a template that will not only bring back those displaced by this incident but will guarantee lasting peace in the localities,’’ Longe said. NAN reports that the team visited the communities of both groups affected by the clashes. (NAN)