By Lydia Ngwakwe/Esenvosa Izah Lagos – Lagos State Government is fully committed to working with other stakeholders to advance balanced, people-centered and holistic approaches to curb the menace of drug abuse in Nigeria. The State Commissioner for Health, Dr Jide idris, made this assertion on Monday in Lagos. Idris said that the approaches would be fully in line with the universal drug control convention. “The recent crisis involving Tramadol and Codeine abuse, and other
drug use problems, compounded by gaps in health and social services
leave far too many people without the help they needed. “This leads to illicit drug cultivation and trafficking related crimes and violence. “To curb the menace of drug abuse, governments at various levels
should step up campaign to educate and enlighten people on the danger of
using illicit drugs. “The state government will leave no stone unturned in ensuring that the society is rid of the use and sale of illicit drugs. “The unprecedented involvement of youths, especially secondary school
students and undergraduates in drug abuse is unacceptable as they are
the future leaders,” he said in a statement. The commissioner said that the state government would continue to
work with relevant agencies to stem the tide of illegal consumption of
codeine and other mind altering drugs. He said that other arms of government would be effectively empowered
to bring to book and deal with the registered and licenced premises
encouraging illicit trade and trafficking in these drugs. “We will continue to monitor and ensure massive public enlightenment
campaigns against drug abuse and misuse through both public and private
health facilities to create awareness on the dangers of this growing
social menace,” Idris said. He urged parents and guardians to collectively fight against drug
abuse and monitor their children by maintaining close relationships with
them. Idris said this was in order to discover any sudden change in
attitude and behaviour that might be drug-related and therefore, be in a
position to take necessary corrective measures before it gets
complicated. “Addiction does not start overnight; it is a gradual process that
manifests various symptoms, including changes in behaviours and
attitudes. “Also, community and religious groups should help in curbing the
growing trend by increasing public awareness campaigns against drug
abuse and misuse. “All of us can play our part and take action; policy makers first and
foremost, but also concerned citizens, parents, caregivers, teachers
and engaged young people. “We can all work together to prevent substance abuse and contribution
to the actualisation of the Sustainable Development Goals”, the
commissioner said. By Kadiri Abdulrahman Abuja - The Lamido of Adamawa, Dr. Muhammed Barkindo, has advised parents… By Peter Okolie Onitsha (Anambra) - Sen. Stella Oduah has promised to join forces with… LAGOS - The Lagos State Government on Thursday said that it would channel its available…