By Stanley Nwanosike Enugu – The Youth Wing of Ohaneze Ndigbo, the apex Igbo socio-cultural group, has advised the Federal Government to caution persons threatening Igbos in Lagos to prevent the country from heating up. The socio-cultural group gave the advice in Enugu on Wednesday in a
communiqué signed by the National Youth Leader of Ohaneze Ndigbo, Chief
Arthur Obiora at the end of the meeting of the Youth Wing of Ohaneze
Ndigbo. The group insisted that the interest of the Igbo nation “must be sacrosanct in the Nigerian factor”. It called on state governors of the South-East zone and other
Igbo-speaking states to live-up to their responsibilities by protecting
and projecting Igbo identity and ideology. “We urge them to use their good offices to prevail on President
Muhammadu Buhari to act fast in the interest of peace and national
cohesion,” the group added. It condemned in totality the Igbo/Yoruba crisis in Lagos State,
saying that leaders in the state should exercise caution by their
utterances and actions. “Every citizen of Nigeria should be protected in any part of the country. “The protection of lives and properties of Ndigbo in Lagos and any
other part of Nigeria is sacrosanct to the Igbo nation, hence, we
advocate peace. “We commend the Afenifere for their positive intervention in the matter,” Igbo group said. The body, which called on President Buhari to assent to the
South-East Development Commission Bill, congratulated people of Igbo
extraction all over the world for their show of brotherhood and sense of
unity in the Feb. 23 Presidential/National Assembly Elections. “By this singular act, we have shown to the rest of the World that
the Igbo nation is united and indivisible,” the group maintaied. It, however, cautioned every other group or persons posing as members
of Ohaneze Ndigbo to desist from such act with immediate effect. “We reaffirm our support and loyalty to the national leadership of
Ohaneze Ndigbo and pass a Vote of Confidence on our President-General,
Chief Nnia Nwodo and his executives, for the good, great and noble works
they are doing for the Igbo nation,” the group further stated. The two-page communiqué was . [NAN]