NNEWI (Sundiata Post) – Innoson Motors has said that the judgement it is enforcing against GTBank Plc has nothing to do with the Nigerian Customs Service as claimed in the statement issued over the weekend by the bank. In a statement issued on Saturday by Cornel Okigwe, Innoson’s head of corporate affairs, the company said the clarification became necessary to ensure that the public was not deceived by GTBank. The full statement reads: THE ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT AGAINST GUARANTY TRUST BANK “We want to address the general public on the matters arising from the enforcement of judgment against GT Bank by Innoson Nigeria Ltd. “GTB in a Press Statement signed by Erhi Obebeduo claims that “the judgment allegedly in issue is in respect of Garnishee Proceedings against the account of the Nigerian Customs Service Board domiciled with the Bank and not against the Bank as an entity”. GTB by this claim is nothing short of being economical with the truth. “The Garnishee order absolute issued by the Federal High Court Ibadan in Suit No: FHC/L/CS/603/2006 ordered GTB to pay Innoson Nigeria Ltd the judgment sum of N2.4 Billion with a 22% interest, per annum, on the judgment sum until the final liquidation of the judgment. “GTB appealed the Federal High Court’s decision up to the Supreme Court and lost. From the Supreme Court’s decision, you will find that the case was between GTB and Innoson Nigeria Ltd and no other person. “For emphasis, in a garnishee proceeding, once an order of garnishee nisi is made, the garnishee is required by law to set the amount involved aside and will not allow the judgment debtor to withdraw from it; and if the order is made absolute, the garnishee pays the money to the judgment creditor and incurs no liability for doing that but if the order is not made absolute the garnishee returns the money to the judgment debtor. “In this case, the order was made absolute since 29th July 2011 and GTB held unto the money from that time and is using for its business. It follows that by the time the order was made absolute it was no more the judgment debtor’s money but rather that of Innoson Nigeria Ltd who is the judgment creditor; if a garnishee refuses to comply with the order, then, it becomes a judgment debtor, as GTB has become in the present case, against whom execution of the order will issue. Therefore, there is no merit or force in the GTB’s press statement. “Furthermore and interestingly, the Garnishee order absolute was against GTB and no one else; and it is only GTB and no one else that will comply with the order; in the circumstance, the order will be executed against GTB and no one else. Please, be guided accordingly.” Meanwhile, in its continued effort to enforce the court judgement, Innoson Motors has said it would descend on the head office and more branches of GTBank next week. Osigwe, who said this in an interview with Daily Trust in Nnewi on Saturday, said the company had sealed seven of GTB bank branches. The branches are: one in Nnewi, two in Onitsha, two in Awka and two in Enugu and would move to seal the GTB Head office next week. He said Innoson would seal more of GTB bank branches nationwide to recover the N8.8 billions owed to the motor company. “We will seal more of their properties to recover our money and from next week, we shall move to GTB head office to enforce the judgement of courts. We will sell  those properties to get our money back”, he said.In a statement issued, on Friday, Innoson had said it has obtained a court order to take control of  GTB over indebtedness of N8.8 billion. However, GTB bank refuted the claim saying that the judgment was against the account of the Nigerian Customs and Excise Board domiciled with GTBank, and not against GTBank as an entity. Cornel Osigwe had in a statement said the company has obtained a writ of Fi fa from the Federal High Court sitting in Awka, Anambra State, against Guaranty Trust Bank( GTB) to take over the bank’s properties. According to him, the judgement was to implement the judgment given by Supreme of Nigeria earlier. He said in the statement, that the judgement given by the Federal High Court, Ibadan was upheld by the Supreme Court of Nigeria.