By Victor Adeoti Osogbo – The All Progressives Congress (APC) has won 22 out of the 26 seats in Osun House of Assembly in Saturday’s election, the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports. In the official results made available to newsmen in Osogbo on Sunday
by Mr Olusegun Agbaje, the State’s Resident Electoral Commissioner, the
Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) won three seats. According to the  results, election into Oriade State Constituency
was inconclusive and a new date would be communicated at a later  date. The three state constituencies won by PDP were Ede North, Ede South and Obokun. The 22 constituencies won by APC were Osogbo, Olorunda, Ejigbo, Ilesa
East , Ife North, Ifedayo, Ayedaade , Ifelodun, Ola Oluwa, Atakumosa
East and West, Ayedire and Boluwaduro/Boripe. Others were  Egbedore ,Ife Central, lfe East, Ife South, Ila, Ilesa West, Irepodun/ Orolu,Irewole / Isokan,Iwo and Odo-Otin. NAN reports that the outgoing eigth assembly was made of 24 APC members and two PDP members. Although three of the APC lawmakers defected to PDP and Action
Democratic Party (ADP) in the build up to the Sept. 22, 2018
governorship election, the party still maintained its majority seats. Meanwhile, the APC has described the result of the election has an
emphatic statement of the people that they wanted good governance to
continue in the state. The party in a statement by its Director Publicity, Mr Kunle Oyatomi,
on Sunday in Osogbo  said the success at the polls was a clear victory
for the people. The statement read partly:  ” What the majority of our people have
indicated is that it makes sense to continue with what had been
happening in the state since 2010. ” If the PDP had won the elections, they would have, as a matter of
adversarial policy, dismantled all the progress made in the state by
Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola. “ Fortunately, providence disallowed that to happen but instead
answered the prayers and longings of Osun people to continue with the
state’s pace-setting content and delivery of progressive governance. “Therefore it must be said in acknowledgement that it is the people
of Osun who have also made it happen with their total support at the
polls. ” We are consequently urging the people of the state to brace up for
greater achievements, regardless of their party affiliation, and to
unite in contributing their share of responsibility in making Osun one
of the best states in Nigeria,’’ he said.