By Emmanuel Mogbede Abuja – The Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN) has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to  ensure a government of national unity in his second term. Alhaji Ganiyu Galadima, National Chairman of the party,made the call
in a statement on Friday in Abuja, saying his victory  at the Feb.23
Presidential and National Assembly elections was true reflection of  the
will of the majority of Nigerians. Galadima said government of national unity  would further
solidify,unite the country and give stakeholders that had something to
offer the nation the opportunity to serve in different capacities. He also advised President Buhari to intensify efforts at tackling
insecurity beyond the North-East and  revamp the nation’s economy. The ACNP national chairman also said that the country’s social safety
net should be improved upon to boost  the living conditions of 
Nigerians especially the elderly and the unemployed. He called on the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential
Candidate in the election,Atiku Abubakar, to concede defeat or channel
his grievances through appropriate quarters. The party chairman stressed the need for Atiku and the PDP to steer 
clear  of actions  and utterances that would overheat the polity and
degenerate into security threat. He congratulated President Buhari on his victory at the polls which
he described as well-deserved considering his popularity, acceptance
across board and his performance in the last three and half years. “We as a party had expressed our support for him even before the election, and we thank God that our support was not in vain. “We, therefore, urge Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the PDP to see Buhari’s
victory as the will of the majority of Nigerians; the people have
spoken. “We expect him as a democrat to concede defeat and move on, bearing in mind that it is God that gives power. “We also believe that Alhaji Atiku and his party have the rights to
challenge the outcome but we advise that such should be done in a
peaceful manner without putting the security of Nigeria and Nigerians at
risk,” he said. Galadima commended the Independent National Electoral Commission
(INEC), security agencies, political parties and Nigerians for giving
peace a chance before, during and after the announcement of the election
results. He urged Nigerians to be more patriotic by coming out en masse during
the remaining elections slated for March 9, in a peaceful manner to
exercise their franchise. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that ACPN was one of the
political parties that adopted President Buhari as its candidate and
rallied support for his re-election. President Buhari polled 15,191,847 votes, winning in 19 states to
defeat Atiku Abubakar who got 11,262,978 votes  to place second. The president had contested the election with 72 presidential candidates from other political parties. Ttwo days to the election, 12 presidential candidates had endorsed Buhari as their preferred candidate.(NAN) By Yakubu Uba Yola - The Director, Field Operations of President Muhammadu Buhari Campaign Organisation,… Abuja (Sundiata Post) - There were wild jubilation in Zaria, Kaduna State on Wednesday over… By Isaac Aregbesola Abuja - The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Geoffrey Onyeama, has said…