Kano – A total of 31 governorship candidates from various political parties have signed an accord to promote peaceful conduct before, during and after the 2019 general elections in Kano.‎ ‎The candidates that signed the accord include, incumbent governor,
Abdullahi Ganduje of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Alhaji Abba
Yusuf of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) and Salihu Sagir Takai of
People Redemption Party (PRP).‎ ‎The peace document was signed at the instance of the Kano state
peace committee, co-chaired by Prof. Ibrahim Umar, the Bishop of Kano
Diocese, Rt. Rev. John Niyiring and member National Peace Committee,
Prof. Ibrahim Gambari.‎ Speaking at the event, representative of the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu
Mahraz urged the candidates to avoid acts capable of triggering
violence. “I urge you to shun any act that can lead to destruction of lives and property before, during and after the elections. “Peace is needed before the elections, it is important during the
elections and we need peace even after the elections,” he said.‎ Also speaking, Kano state Commissioner of Police, Muhammad Wakili,
said the peace pact would give all political parties, stakeholders  and
interests equal play field. “This exercise will also help us to have smooth and peaceful
elections, so this is a to me a huge pre-election achievement,” he said. He said that ‎the Kano state police command was in synergy with other
security agencies in the state, saying, “ we shall ensure the safety of
all the stakeholders during and after the elections. ‎‎Wakili used the occasion to reiterate his resolve to sustain the fight against drug abuse and thuggery even after election.‎ In his speech, Gambari, stressed the need for peace across the nation during and after the polls. He urged politicians in the country to avoid hate speech and demonizing of political opponents. Earlier, Kano state governor, Ganduje had called on all stakeholders
in the state to support every move towards peaceful election. He expressed optimism that security agencies would do their job without fear or favour during the elections. Onitsha (Anambra) - Mr Peter Obi, Vice Presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic party (PDP) in… By Peter Amine Jos - The Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Plateau Council has cautioned… By Mohammad Tijjani Kaduna - The Southern Kaduna Peace and Reconciliation Committee has called on…