An essay titled Okota: The Igbo Question, Jimi Agbaje, Afenifere And The
Rest Of Us written by Femi Kusa, highly respected in print journalism,
raised dust in the social media circuit. The essay was a response to
growing tensions between Yorubas and Igbos due to the invasion of thugs
of Yoruba stock on Igbo dominated Lagos suburb of Okota during the
recent presidential elections. The thugs attacked and vandalized
polling booths, disrupted the election process, seized ballot boxes and
burnt thumb printed ballot papers in broad daylight. The next day, the
same thugs threatened and prevented Igbo traders from their shops and
businesses in Lagos. Why? The Igbos predominantly support Atiku
Abubakar, the PDP presidential candidate. Whereas Yorubas largely
support Muhammadu Buhari, APC presidential flag bearer. In a bizarre
twist of democratic tenets, the dominant and aborigine Yoruba insist
that the Igbos must subject their voting preference to align with
theirs. That is to vote for Buhari against Atiku or face dire
consequences. A strange argument to justify this demand is that
Igbos are “strangers” who must respect and not vote against their Yoruba
“hosts”. Absolutely obtuse. No logic can rationalize this autocratic
imposition of voting preference on any Nigerian citizen in any part of
this country. Kusa condemned the thugs invasion and violent
disruption of the voting process in Okota. He, however, drew attention
to a deeper strain of tribal angst by the Yoruba against the Igbos in
Lagos over ownership of Lagos? He alleged that Igbos say they own Lagos
or call Lagos “no man’s land” to the chagrin of Yoruba, his tribe and
calls on the Igbos to stop the claims. In his view all lands in Lagos
are Yoruba owned. The core object of Kusa’s essay is summed up
in this quote: “Igbos should stop saying they own Lagos or that Lagos is
a ‘no man’s land’. Only a bastard Yoruba man will not feel affronted by
such statements. And in spiritual terms, the man or woman who cannot
defend his land is not fit to live.” Very strong words. I am not quite
sure if by this statement Kusa sought to justify by sleight of words,
the thuggery he had condemned. Or to warn Igbos of worse repercussions
to come if they do not yield to the whims and caprices of the tribal
overlordship of the Yoruba in Lagos. But I disagree with Kusa.
And vehemently too. His position is untenable particularly in a
democratic, civil, peculiar modern mega city like Lagos. Before I say
why, permit me a brief preamble. Today, a tidal wave of nationalism is
sweeping across the West even America, washing ashore debris of hatred
and bloodlust against immigrants. Nationalism is mere cover for the
virulent strain of hatred or feeling of superiority over other races. A
euphemism for racism. Racism is evil. So too is tribalism evil.
Tribalism is defined as the state of being organised by, or advocating
for, tribes or tribal lifestyles. This ordinarily is not evil. But when
pushed to hate and take advantage over other tribes, it triggers fear,
uncertainty and violence. Tribalism like racism wears a coat of terror.
It is exploitation of tribal sentiments for personal aggrandizement. In
Nigeria, tribalism is often stoked by the politician to win elections,
dominate power and resources. The politician conjures or latches on
primordial sentiments of tribal superiority or perception of being
cheated or marginalised by other tribes and uses it as a political tool
to win elections. The yokels who serve as his foot soldiers of tribalism
are mere expendables in the selfish but murderous and destructive war
of attrition that tribalism generates. Tribalism and racism are
the antithesis of humaneness. A danger to humanity. They negate the
Christian ethic to love your neighbour as yourself. Driven by greed,
they stoke hate and destruction. Hitler’s Holocaust, Rwanda’s genocide
and Nigeria’s civil war are few examples in history. The produce?
Millions and thousands of humans get massacred in rivers of blood. That
said, I return to Mr Kusa. I disagree with his views. True it is that
aborigines of Lagos are Yoruba. But is being aborigines equate Yoruba
ownership of all lands of modern Lagos? I think not. Just as I disagree
with the notion that Lagos is no man’s land or Igbos own all of Lagos.
Every inch of the land is owned. Indeed most virgin lands and a great
swathe of built up lands in Lagos belong to the Yoruba. Just as well, a
significant amount of lands in the city state belong to non indigenes
who bought from the Yoruba and are bonafide owners of their lands. No
land in Lagos is no man’s land. There is another unique reason Secondly,
Lagos city is particularly peculiar from other towns or cities in
Nigeria. It was the seat of power, political and economic capital of
Nigeria for 77 years, almost eight decades, from 1914 to 1991 when the
capital moved to Abuja. The nation poured national resources into
building Lagos as a befitting capital city. In poured government
offices, workers, businesses, corporate bodies and all in search of
opportunities the federal capital territory offered. This was more so
with sea ports concentrated in Lagos while ports in Warri, Sapele, Koko,
Port Harcourt were left to rot. This flux of citizens built up Lagos
into the wealthy, multi rainbow populated mega city it is today. Safe
in the fact that Lagos is the federal capital territory, citizens from
across the country, settled in and invested heavily in the city. For
decades, they worked, took business risks, paid their taxes, bought
lands, built properties, had generations of children for whom Lagos is
home. They speak and live Yoruba. Lagos is like no other town or city
anywhere else in Nigeria. Not even in the entire south west region. Not
even the large city of Ibadan. Eko is peculiar. It is the city of all
citizens and welcomes all, like all communities in Nigeria ought be. It
is the ultimate precursor of the future where every citizen is welcome
and can live in any community, anywhere in Nigeria and not be labeled a
stranger or foreigner but an integral part of the community cultural
backcloth. But in more recent times there has been an unsettling
upsurge of tribalism and aboriginal sentiments. Why? It cannot be
because of the unfounded if silly assertion that Lagos is no man’s land.
If you follow the politics, money and power, the why becomes apparent.
It is politics. It is about ruthless politicians who stir up dirty dusts
of tribalism to intimidate, to win elections, to hold tenaciously to
power and lucre for self. For the politician, tribalism is the easy and
ready machinery for driving the hoi pollio into frothing frenzy of rage
against targeted innocents. The politician is ruthless. He cares
not a jot of the hatred, destruction and blood gore his call to
tribalism generates. The Jagaban Ahmed Tinubu is Yoruba and the most
powerful politician in the city. He is easily the suspect sponsor of the
criminal thug attacks on polling booths in Igbo neighborhoods, close
down of Igbo shops and upsurge in tribal sentiments. Femi Kusa and his
ilk knowingly or naively, with their tirade of tribalism, pour fuel into
a potential criminal and bloody civil unrest. This intimidation
of the Igbos on election day has absolutely everything to do with APC
Yoruba political chieftains forcing Igbo citizens to vote APC. It is not
about Yoruba versus Igbo. It is about the fear of losing Lagos to the
opposition PDP. A loss that will cut a deep dent in Tinubu’s image as
the impregnable strong man of Lagos politics and the APC and signpost
the end to his stranglehold of the city. There was indeed no
reason for Femi Kusa to interject the “Lagos is no man’s land” matter
into a purely criminal political enterprise to disenfranchise Igbo
voters of their constitutional right to vote and be voted for freely.
Kusa’s attempt to justify the use of thugs to unleash violence and force
citizens into voting according to the whim of a political oligarch, an
attempt at citizens enslavement is shameful. To seek to justify this
criminality on whatever basis of tribalism is crude meanness. You
live and do business in peace with your neighbours. But elections come
and you insist your neighbour is not entitled to run for elective office
or to vote for a candidate different from yours. He must vote in line
with your interest because of aboriginal claims. If they resist, you
label them strangers, cut them from their shops and businesses, threaten
them with genocide and put the entire city under the gripping fear of
intense uncertainty. It is an absolute violation of decency. The
only reason why this flagrant rape on rights happen is that
perpetrators and political oligarchs who sponsor them are ultra
confident they and their thugs dare not be arrested, prosecuted and
thrown into prison. This reckless impunity explain why Nigeria remains a
mere “geographical expression”. It reflects our inability to coalesce
into nationhood, to build core values that define the Nigerian citizen.
The resort to primordial ethnic and tribal identity is the huge fortress
set against national patriotism. The National Youth Service
Corp was one attempt to forge a national identity and brotherly love
between youths of different cultures and tribes. But the consistent
recourse to tribal divisiveness and violence unleashed even on corpers
by politicians, particularly in the north has made the NYSC useless. The
national identity is DOA (Dead on Arrival) with corpers slaughtered in
parts of country by culprits who are free as birds. It is easier
for a Yoruba or an Igbo to be elected into political office in Britain
and America than as citizens outside their tribal areas in their home
country, Nigeria. The recent attacks on Igbos proves the point, to get
elected as a non Yoruba even in a mega city like Lagos that was capital
for 77 years is a mirage. Politicians have driven the tribalism virus in
the people, so that tribalism is more important than talent, character
and capacity. Why is this so? Though the evil of racism remains
an issue in America, its legal backbone, the US constitution and its
laws, ensures that the legal system and courts uphold the American core
values – its culture and focus on the individual rather than the tribe
or race, individual’s right to equal opportunities, liberty and
democratic freedoms. One may attribute this to America being a nation of
immigrants. But lessons to learn from their democratic experience:
where the law upholds the core values and rights of the individual and
refuses to inculcate racists views of say the KKK, a political system
can rise above racism and tribalism. This ought be the essence
of our social contract, the constitution. Sadly our constitution is no
more than a piece of paper blown by diverse winds, devoid of the
cohesive spirit of core values. Laws that ought protect individuals is
snorted at in derision by men who overfed with illicit power and wealth,
resort not to the law but impunity and violence. Men never brought to
book because human life is not sacred here and because citizen’s rights
can be trampled at a whim. What we have is a culture of brutish
rascality. Nigeria is easily Dante’s Inferno. A journey through
hell. The massacre of thousands of innocents on grounds of tribalism or
religious loathing happens means nothing. The murderous killers paid to
execute the bloody sprees and their sponsors go scot free. The state and
police merely pile up body counts and record rapidly growing statistics
of the murdered. Until we define our core values as a country,
the powerful among us will continue to use the tribe as a weapon for
self aggrandizement, no matter the scale of bloodletting and
destruction. Until the individual’s rights to equal opportunities
anywhere in the country is guaranteed and is of greater import than the
tribe, we will not know justice and fairness. Until every
Nigerian citizen is judged not by tribe but by character and
contribution, nationhood will be a pipe dream. Until we put premium on
the life, liberty, equality of the every citizen, the vision of the
patriotic Nigerian will never be attained. Until the oligarch sponsors
who stoke embers of tribalism, religiosity and regionalism and their
thugs who threaten, attack, destroy and murder even one citizen are
brought swiftly and promptly to justice, Nigeria will remain a joke of a
nation. The militarization of our collective psyche since
1966/67 has to deliberately and systematically scrubbed off. It must be
replaced with enforcement of civil law, protection of individual’s
rights and the inculcation of the culture of core values and democratic
tenets to unify rather than divide. Only then will Nigeria know justice.
Until then the country be riven by the evils and divisiveness of
tribalism, religiosity, regionalism and impunity. The bitter truth of
our existence however is that Nigeria is today run by sadist tribal and
religious war lords who masquerade as politicians, leaders, elders and
intellectuals. The recourse to tribalism and tirade on who owns
Lagos by otherwise respected citizen as Femi Kusa posited is dangerous.
It is fuel poured on smoldering evil with a view to crackle it into
destructive fire. But even more dangerous are the political oligarch who
behind the scenes sponsor tribal and religious outrages. Over the
decades, hundreds of thousands of innocent citizens have been murdered
in the country, particularly in the north where massacres of Igbos and
Christians are perennial bloody orgies. Perpetuators are never brought
to justice. We hope Lagos will not become a slaughter house. The
country cannot continue on this killer trajectory. The Niger Delta
militants, the Biafra agitators, even Boko Haram are wavelets warning of
the tsunamis to come, scorched earth fire, destruction and desolation
that consume all of us and the country. We can avoid this scenario. We
need to construct building blocks to protect individual rights and
cemented with unifying core values. These blocks will stave off the
tsunamis that will be generated by tribalism, religiosity and
regionalism. I repeat, when we choose citizens with character,
capacity and productivity rather than by tribe, we will generate
effective leaders. When we promptly prosecute and convict the individual
who breaks the law, no matter his tribe and status, we can then live in
peaceful coexistence, assured of justice and fairness anywhere in the
country. I hope Lagos will be the model for this vision not be the
bloody hotbed of evil tribalism.