By Stella kabruk Kaduna – The National Ear Care Center has conducted free ear screening for 500 students and teachers from selected schools in Kaduna, as part of activities to mark the World Hearing Day. The Medical Consultant, Dr Saheed Nasiru told the News Agency of
Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday that the screening was organised to help
students with hearing ailments to avoid hearing loss. He said it was also to raise awareness on how to prevent deafness and
hearing loss and promote ear and hearing care across the state. “Many people live with unidentified hearing loss, often failing to
realise that they are missing out on certain sounds and words. Checking
ones hearing would be the first step towards addressing the issue. “We are giving them health education on care of the ear so that they will not neglect it because it can affect the brain. ” Some of them only hear with one ear and this affects their studies. ” We will be treating them and making referrals to some of them with serious cases to the hospital for proper medication.” Nasiru said the medical team would treat those with minor ailments, fungal infections and other ailments. He explained that hearing loss can develop at any age and can be
caused by different factors, adding that only five percent of hearing
loss in adults can be improved medically or surgically. He said there are different types of hearing losses depending on which part of the ear is affected. He said Sensorin eural hearing loss occurs when the inner ear nerves
are damaged and do not properly transmit auditory signals to the brain. ” Some of the causes of such is head trauma,illness, genetic or hereditary hearing loss. “We also have conductive hearing loss which is as a result of obstruction in the outer or middle ear. ” Those experiencing such may sense a reduction in sound level or
ability to hear faint sounds and the causes include ear infection,
allergies, fluid in the middle ear, perforated eardrum. He advised residents to avoid using sharp objects in the ears,
engaging in  fights that can affect their ear and treat all infection
promptly to avoid ear loss. ” People should also avoid self medication and excessive noise,” he added. He said hearing tests help diagnose the problem and pinpoint the underlying causes. He advised the people to always go for test if they are hearing
ringing in their ears, having difficulty understanding what is being
said in a conversation with two or more people or needing to turn the
volume higher than normal for their television, phone, etc.. “People should also come for hearing test when retracting or avoiding
social settings, embarrassed by an inability to hear adequately.” NAN reports that the students were from Government Secondary Schools in Tudun Wada and Rigasa.(NAN)