ABUJA – The Ademola Adeleke Campaign Organisation in Abuja on Wednesday told the embattled Governor of Osun State, Gboyega Oyetola “and his band of usurpers” that the handful of paid demonstrators rallying against the Appeal Court judgement which sacked him cannot sustain a stolen mandate cannot save. The organisation was reacting to over 100 demonstrators allegedly paid and sponsored by government drumming support for Oyetola. The AACO in a statement obtained by journalists in Abuja affirmed that the court judgement restoring Senator Ademola Adeleke’s mandate is valid and lawful in law and the constitution as it flows from evidence and cross examinations throughout the duration of the hearing. The statement reads: “The usurpers are jittery and desperate over the restoration of people’s mandate. We note with confidence in God and people that the judgement is God’s given based on truth and dispassionate interpretation of the law and the constitution. We affirm that the judgement restored the will of the people as openly expressed on September 22 2018. The mobilisation of exploited O-Yes members to rally against a judgement that sets Osun people free from slave holders is reprehensible and a cowardly attempt to hoodwink the people. “We note that that there is nothing within the judgement that is not covered by law and the constitution. The ruling to nullify the rerun ,the cancellation of results of some polling units and the declaration of Ademola Adeleke as the winner are all provided for by provisions of INEC Electoral guidelines, Electoral Act, the constitution of the Federal Republic and extant judgements of various courts in the land. “The demonstration is therefore the historic last kick of a dying horse; it is a manifestation of desperation and panic in the midst of ultimate defeat. We urge our teaming supporters to remain peaceful and law abiding. Our team is prepared to pursue this matter until ultimate judgement is granted planting the people’s Governor on the seat at Abere Government House.” The statement also thanked the people of Osun state for their demonstration of love and support since the judgement was declared even as it urges maintenance of peace and order even in the face of provocations.