By Mujidat Oyewole Ilorin – Various security agencies in Kwara said on Thursday that a total of 2,136 officers had been deployed to ensure law and order in Saturday’s governorship and state house of assembly elections in the state. The security agencies are the Kwara commands of the Nigeria Security
and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), The National Drug Law Enforcement
Agency (NDLEA) and the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). Speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Ilorin on Thursday,
Commandant Bello Ale of NSCDC expressed appreciation to Kwara people
for their cooperation and support during the Feb. 23
Presidential/National Assembly elections. He expressed the readiness of the corps to do more in providing
security before, during and after Saturday’s elections, saying: “2000
personnel of the corps have been deployed across the state for this
purpose.” Ale further urged the public to be law abiding, shun any act capable
of disrupting the electoral process, and cooperate with security
agencies for peaceful conduct of the elections. He assured the public that the corps would promote the creation of
environment that would be conducive for the conduct of peaceful
governorship and state house of assembly elections. The NDLEA Commander, Barr. Ona Ogilegwu, said that a total of 80
officers had been deployed to the 16 Local Government Areas of the state
to ensure peaceful conduct of the March 9 elections. “We are deploying the same number of officers as we did during the
Presidential and National Assembly elections to cover all the local
government areas of the state. “A total number of 80 officers will resume their duty posts tomorrow,
March 8, ahead of Saturday’s polls and will remain there until the
results are declared,” he said. Ogilegwu said that the heads of security offices in the state have
held meetings with officials of the Independent National Electoral
Commission (INEC) in the state and discussed how free and fair elections
in the area could be conducted. According to him, another meeting has been scheduled with the state’s
Commissioner of Police, Kayode Egbetokun, who is also the state
Chairman of the security committee for the 2019 elections. Alhaji Umar Abu, Deputy Comptroller of Customs, Ilorin, said that
three officers had been deployed to each of the 16 Local Government
Areas of the state, with a supervisor in each of the three senatorial
districts of the state. Abu stated that strategic plans had been made by security operatives to ensure peaceful and hitch-free elections. “I also participated in the meeting with the security men, REC
committee, military men and all other officers concerned in order to
ensure peaceful elections in the state,” he said. (NAN) By Ahmed AbbaDamaturu. -. The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) Yobe, is fully… By Rita Iliya Minna - The Niger government has declared Friday, March 8, a work-free… Onitsha (Anambra) - Mr Peter Obi, Vice Presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic party (PDP) in…