By Peter Amine Jos – The Senior Staff Association of Universities, Teaching Hospitals, Research Institutes and Associated Institutions (SSAUTHRAI), has recommended that salaries of Nigerian Institute of Mining and Geosciences (NIMG), Jos workers should be at par with universities. Dr Benjamin Akintola, SSAUTHRAI acting National President, made the recommendation on Tuesday in Jos, at the Quadrennial General/Delegates Conference of NIMG. Akintola said that it was imperative for the management of the institute to act on the recommendation, if it must keep its best hands. “Whatever allowances you are paying to your staff, it should not be less than what is paid in the universities if not more,” he said. The president also advised staff to always put in their best in the discharge of their duties. “Do your best so that your impact will be felt; wherever you work, let us see your skills. Don’t lag behind. “As long as you play your part, leave the rest to the union,” he said. Akintola commended NIMG management for the cordial relationship between it and the unions. Prof. Bolaji Hassan, Director General, NIMG, in his remarks, appreciated SSAUTHRAI for the cordial industrial relations in the Institute. Hassan, who was represented by Mr Marcos Bwala, Assistant Director, Training and Research Development, said that management would continue to work in harmony with the unions. “We will continue to work together to move NIMG forward,” he said. Mr Ralph Ogunsanya, NIMG SSAUTHRAI Chairman, in his speech, said that during the struggles in the last four years, union officials were humiliated, disgraced and thrown out of the gate of the institute on many occasions. Ogunsanya said that the leaders suffered such humiliation for choosing to be on the side of the voiceless masses of our Institute. “Even though the leadership of this union was deprived of salaries and promotion, we kept pushing and remained unfazed because we knew that there would always be light at the end of the tunnel,” he said. He promised that the union and staff of the institute would not relent in the struggles until the myriad of challenges confronting the Institute were addressed. (NAN)