By Chukwuemeka Opara Abakaliki – The Muslim community in Ebonyi, widows association and market women among other groups have contributed funds for the re-election of Gov. David Umahi of Ebonyi. The groups, who made the contributions on Friday in Abakaliki during
an interactive forum with the governor, said the governor touched their
lives in several ways. Alhaji Lukman Alkali, Leader of the Muslim Community in Ebonyi, said
its members contributed funds for the governor’s re-election due to his
accommodating disposition. “Various ethnic groups and religious adherents have remained peaceful in Ebonyi without any incidence of disturbance. “We wish to continue co-existing peacefully with our Christian
brothers in the state and have decided to vote massively for the
governor on March 9,” he said. Alkali noted that Muslims had benefited from the massive
developmental strides of the governor and his economic enhancement
policies. Mrs Stella Ogoke, Coordinator of Widows in Ebonyi, noted that widows were ready to massively vote for the governor on March 9. “The governor has economically empowered widows through his various
empowerment schemes and we have been praying and fasting for his
re-election. “We decided on our own to contribute funds individually and
collectively for the re-lection of the governor who is the husband of
widows. “Over 2,000 widows empowered in various ways by the governor, contributed N500 each towards his re-election. “The money should be used to buy cows and other items to receive
visitors coming to congratulate you after being re-elected on March 9,”
she said. Mrs Rose Akochi, Leader of the Market Women, said market women made
contributions toward the governor’s re-election due to his viable
economic policies. “Beyond the financial contributions we made, we have also mobilised
to vote massively for Umahi and protect our votes,” she said. Rev.Fr Abraham Nwali, state Chairman of the Christian Association of
Nigeria (CAN), said the church had adopted the governor for a second
term in office. “This is because he delivered on his campaign promises, so the church
will stand by him being not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. “We have made personal contributions towards your re-election because we know that you are a child of God,” he said. Responding, Umahi thanked the groups for their support and
contributions, pledging to lead with greater fear of God if re-elected
into office. “I will fulfill all the promises I made during the campaigns and will
strive with greater passion toward uplifting the citizens’ welfare,” he
said. (NAN) By Ahmed Ubandoma Abuja - The wife of the President Aisha Buhari, on Wednesday hosted… The market capitalisation of listed equities on Tuesday shed N85 billion in six hours of… By Chinyere Joel-Nwokeoma Lagos - Trading on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) on Thursday continued…