New Delhi – India on Wednesday shot down one of its satellites in space with an anti-satellite missile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said. Modi hailed the country’s first test of such technology as a major breakthrough that establishes it as a space power. India would only be the fourth country to have used such an anti-satellite weapon after the U.S., Russia and China. “Our scientists shot down a live satellite 300 kilometres away in space, in low-earth orbit,” Modi said in a television broadcast. According to him, India has made an unprecedented achievement today. “India registered its name as a space power,’’ he added, speaking in Hindi. Anti-satellite weapons allow for attacks on enemy satellites, blinding them or disrupting communications, as well as providing a technology base to intercept ballistic missiles. Such capabilities have raised fears of the weaponisation of space and setting off a race between rivals. After the news, China’s foreign ministry said it hoped all countries “can earnestly protect lasting peace and tranquility in space”. However, the U.S. and Russia both declined to make any immediate comment. Accrording to India’s neighbour and arch-rival, Pakistan says space is the common heritage of mankind and every nation has the responsibility to avoid actions which can lead to the militarisation of this arena. Tension flared in February between the nuclear-armed foes after a militant attack in the disputed region of Kashmir. India has had a space programme for years, making earth imaging satellites and launch capabilities as a cheaper alternative to Western programmes. It successfully sent a low-cost probe to Mars in 2014 and plans its first manned space mission by 2022. “The latest test, conducted from an island off its east coast, was aimed at protecting India’s assets in space against foreign attacks. “The capability achieved provides credible deterrence against threats to our growing space-based assets from long-range missiles, and proliferation in the types and numbers of missiles,” the foreign ministry said. (Reuters/NAN)