Turkey was hailed as an example for a modern Muslim
democracy during the early 2000s. The current ruling party that came to
power in 2002 implemented reforms that were aligned with the European
Union’s democratic standards and the country’s record in human rights
began to improve. Unfortunately, the democratic reforms were
short lived. The process stalled only a few years later and then around
2011, following his third election victory, then-prime minister now
president Erdogan made a complete U-turn. The slide into
authoritarianism have made Turkey no longer an example for other
Muslim-majority countries to aspire to. Some may view the
negative example Turkey presents under Erdogan as evidence of an
incompatibility between democratic and Islamic values. But that would be
an erroneous conclusion. Despite the outward appearance of
Islamic observance, Erdogan regime represents a complete betrayal of
core Islamic values. These core values are not about a style of dressing
or the use of religious slogans. They include respect for the rule of
law and the independence of the judiciary, accountability for the rulers
and the preservation of inalienable rights and freedoms of every
citizen. The recent setback in the Turkish democratic experience is not
because of adherence to these Islamic values, but rather because of
their betrayal. Turkish society remains remarkably heterogeneous.
Sunni or Alevi, Turk, Kurd or other in ethnicity, Muslim or non-Muslim,
and religiously observant or secular in lifestyle Turkish citizens
adhere to many different ideologies, philosophies, and beliefs. In such a
society, the effort to make everyone the same is both futile and
disrespectful to humanity. Participatory or democratic form of
governance where no group, majority or minority, dominates the others is
the only viable form of governance for such a diverse population. The
same can be said of Syria, Iraq and other neighboring countries in the
region. In Turkey or elsewhere, authoritarian rulers have
exploited the differences within the society to polarize various groups
against each other and maintain their stronghold in power. Whatever
beliefs or worldviews they have, citizens should come together around
universal human rights and freedoms and be able to democratically oppose
those who violate these rights. Expressing yourself against
oppression is a democratic right, a civic duty, and a religious duty for
believers. The Quran states that people should not remain silent
against injustice: “O you who have believe! Be persistently standing
firm in justice, witnesses for God, even if it be against yourselves or
parents and relatives.” (4:135) Living according to your beliefs
or worldview with the condition that it does no harm to others, and
exercising fundamental human freedoms, especially freedom of speech,
makes a person truly a human. Liberty is a right given by the
Compassionate God, and no one—and no leader—can take that away. A person
deprived of his or her basic rights and freedoms cannot be said to live
a truly human life. In contrast to claims by political
Islamists, Islam is not a political ideology, it is a religion. It does
have some principles that pertain to governance, but these account for,
at most, five percent of all Islamic principles. To reduce Islam to a
political ideology is the greatest crime against its ethos. In
the past those who studied or spoke about the Islamic perspective of
politics and state made three errors: First, they confused the
historical experiences of Muslims with the foundational sources of
Islamic tradition, the Qur’an and the authentic sayings and practices of
the Prophet (upon whom be peace and blessings of God). Historical
experiences of Muslims and the verdicts of the jurists under these
circumstances should be analyzed with a critical eye, and cannot be
given the same status as the authentic sources of religion. Secondly,
some cherry-picked verses of the Qur’an or the sayings of the Prophet
(pbuh) to legitimize their perspective and pursued to impose that
perspective upon people. The spirit of the Qur’an and the Prophetic
tradition (Sunnah) can only be understood with a holistic view and with a
sincere intention to seek out the will of God. Third, some concluded,
wrongfully, that democracy is fundamentally against Islam because Islam
declares God as the only sovereign whereas democracy is based upon the
sovereignty of the people. No believer doubts that God is the sovereign
of the universe, but this does not mean that human agency, including
thought, inclinations and willpower do not exist or are excluded from
God’s greater plan for humanity. Giving sovereignty to the people does
not mean usurping it from God, but rather taking the right and duty to
govern, which is endowed to humans by God, from a dictator or an
oligarchy and giving it back to the people. The “state” is a
system formed by human beings in order to protect their basic rights and
freedoms and maintain justice and peace. The “state” is not a goal by
itself, but an agency that helps people pursue happiness in this world
and in the afterworld. The alignment of the state with a set of
principles and values is a sum of the alignment of the individuals who
make up the system with those principles and values. Therefore, the
phrase “Islamic state” is a contradiction in terms, an oxymoron.
Similarly, since there is no clergy class in Islam, theocracy is alien
to the spirit of Islam. A state is a result of a contract among humans,
made up of humans, and it can neither be “Islamic” nor “holy”. Democracies
come in all shapes and sizes. The democratic ideal that underlies these
forms, that no group has domination over the others, is also an Islamic
ideal. The principle of equal citizenship is in alignment with
acknowledging the dignity of every human being and respecting them as a
work of art that was created by God. Participatory form of governance,
whether it is called a democracy or republic, is much more in resonance
with the Islamic spirit than other forms of government, including
monarchies and oligarchies. The present picture of Turkey’s leadership resembles an oligarchy rather than democracy. How did it go wrong? President
Erdogan has corrupted Turkey’s once-promising democracy, co-opting the
state, seizing businesses and rewarding cronies. In order to consolidate
enough of the public behind him to make his power grab, he has declared
me and Hizmet movement participants the enemy of the state, blaming us
for every negative incident in the country in the recent past. This is a
textbook example of scapegoating. The government under President
Erdogan has pursued me and also hundreds of thousands of other
people—critics of all stripes, but especially from the peaceful Hizmet
movement. Environmental protesters, Journalists, Academics, Kurds,
Alevis, non-Muslims, and some of the Sunni Muslim groups who have been
critical of Erdogan’s actions have had their share of consequences of
his political agenda. Lives have been ruined through sacking,
confiscating, jailing, and torture. Due to the ongoing
persecution, thousands of Hizmet volunteers have sought asylum in around
the Globe, including France. As new residents, they must abide by the
laws of these countries, help find solutions to problems of those
societies and lead an active struggle against the spread of radical
interpretations of Islam in Europe. Back in Turkey, a vast
arrest campaign based on guilt by association is ongoing. The number of
victims of this campaign of persecution keeps increasing, with over
150,000 losing jobs, over 200,000 detained and over 80,000 arrested and
jailed. People who are targeted by politically-motivated prosecution and
who want to leave are deprived of their fundamental right to leave the
country as their passports are cancelled. Despite setbacks due to
military coups, Turkish Republic has been on a path of continuous
improvement in democracy since its beginning in 1923. Erdogan is
draining the reputation that the Turkish Republic has gained in the
international arena, pushing Turkey into the league of nations known for
suffocating freedoms and jailing democratic dissenters. The ruling
clique is exploiting diplomatic relations, mobilizing government
personnel and resources to harass, haunt and abduct Hizmet movement
volunteers all around the world. In recent years, and in the
face of such persecutions, Turkish citizens have remained relatively
passive in conveying their democratic demands to their leaders. Concern
for economic stability is one possible reason for this behavior. But if
we backtrack from today, we can see that there is also a historic
reason. Despite the fact that democratic governance has been an
ideal of Turkish Republic, democratic values have never been
systematically ingrained into the Turkish society. Obedience to a strong
leader and the state have always been a strong theme in educational
curricula. The military coups, which happened almost every decade, did
not give democracy a chance to take hold and progress. Citizens forgot
that the state existed for the people and not vice versa. It can be
argued that Erdogan took advantage of this collective psyche. Turkish
democracy may be in a coma due to the current leadership but I remain
optimistic. Oppression does not last for too long. I believe that Turkey
will one day return to the democratic path. However, for democracy to
take root and be long lasting, several measures need to be taken. First
of all, the school curricula should be reevaluated. Topics such as
equal rights for all citizens and fundamental human rights and freedoms
should be taught to students in the first years of school so that they
can be guardians of these rights when they grow up. Secondly, there is a
need for a constitution that does not allow for either the minority or
the majority’s domination and protects in every situation the
fundamental human rights referred to in the United Nations’ Universal
Declaration of Human Rights. Civil society and free press should be
protected by the constitution to flourish and be part of the checks and
balances against the state power. Thirdly, opinion leaders should
emphasize democratic values in their rhetoric and action. Turkey
has now reached a point where democracy and human rights are put aside.
It appears to have lost a historic opportunity to achieve a democracy
by the standards of the European Union with  a majority Muslim
population. The leaders of a country are like the cream on top of
a liquid. The cream is made of the same ingredients as the liquid
underneath it. Leaders of a society, possibly with some level of
inaccuracy or delay, reflect the beliefs and values of a society. I hope
and pray that the recent sad experience of the Muslim majority
countries lead to an awakening in the collective consciousness to
produce democratically minded leaders and governments that uphold not
only free an fair elections, but all fundamental human rights and
freedoms. • Original of this Op-Ed was published on Le Monde on February 25, 2019