Owerri – The out-going Imo Governor, Mr Rochas Okorocha, has commended corps members who participated in the just concluded 2019 general elections in the state for their outstanding performances and patrotism. The governor gave the commendation at the official opening of the Orientation Course for the 2019 Batch “A’ Corps members deployed to Imo State at the NYSC Orientation camp, Eziama Obaire, Nkwerre Local Goverment Area. Okorocha, who was represented by Mr Ifeanyichukwu Onwueyiagba, the state Commisssioner for Talent and Youths Development and Chairman NYSC State Governing Board, described the scheme as a call to selfless service and personal sacrifice. “I wish to use this medium to commend you all for your dogged patrotic role and service during the just concluded 2019 general elections in the state. “The corps members that participated in the elections discharged their duties creditably. History will remember you all in this regard,” he said. The governor said that the scheme had remained a true symbol of national unity by  bringing together young people with fresh ideas from various institutions and diverse ethnic background. He urged the corps members to imbibe the lessons of the orientation, especially in skills acquisition in order to contribute meaningfully to the sustainable development of the nation and the state in particular. Okorocha said the skills would adequately equip them towards self-employment, wealth creation and poverty eradication. Mr Sunday Aroni, the State NYSC Coordinator, said that a total of 2,044 corps members comprising 1,037 male and 1,017 female were deployed to the state. He congratulated them on the successful completion of their academic programsmes from their respective institutions of higher learning which qualified them for the national service. “The orientation course was designed to instill in you a sense of discipline, positive altitude, diligence, skills knowledge and a broad world view that will equip you to stand on your own. “To fulfill this objective, I urge you all to pay rapt attention to all the training and activities here in the orientation camp which is regimented. “The training you will receive is meant to equip you with leadership qualities and prepare you mentally and physically to face the challenges of the service year as well as your post service year,” he said. Aroni commended Gov. Okorocha for the numerous projects he had carried out in the scheme, but requested that a befitting clinic and more accommodation be provided in the camp for the comfort of the NYSC members and officials. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the highpoint of the programme was the administration of Oath of Allegiance on the corps members by Justice Paschal Nnadi, the State Chief Judge. Nnadi, represented by the Administrative Judge of the Owerri Judicial Division, Justice Ngozi Ukoha, reminded the corps members that the laudable aim of the scheme could only be realized through sincere commitment, dedication and self discipline. He charged them to shun negative tendencies such as religious bigotry, bribery and corruption, nepotism and ethnicism in their service to their father land. (NAN)