By Suleiman Shehu Ibadan – A former Minister of Sports and Special Duties, Prof. Taoheed Adedoja, has dumped the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and joined the All Progressives Congress (APC). While addressing newsmen on Friday in his Ikolaba residence in
Ibadan, Adedoja said he had submitted his letter of resignation from PDP
to the party’s National Chairman, Uche Secondus. Adedoja explained that his aligning with the APC at this period
of Nigeria’s political dispensation was to contribute his best to the
needed unity of Nigeria,  having built bridges of unity among various
socio-political groups in the country. “I want to align with the Federal government of Nigeria to contribute
to the good governance the country deserves for our people and for my
followers across the country,’’ he said. When asked what his relationship with the Oyo State Governor-elect,
Seyi Makinde is, Adedoja described Makinde as his brother whom he
maintains cordial relationship with. He said that he had congratulated Makinde to wish him God’s guidance in the newly-onerous task of governing Oyo State. Adedoja thanked his well wishers, friends and colleagues across the
country, who in the course of his academic, professional and political
life in different parts of the country had provided him the needed
support and encouragement. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Adedoja was the
governorship candidate of Action Congress (AC) in the 2007 Governorship
election in Oyo State. NAN reports that Adedoja, a former Pro-Chancellor of the Federal
University, Dutse, Jigawa State, also contested for the post of National
Chairman of the PDP at the National Convention of the party in 2017. The resignation of Adedoja from the
PDP has brought to four the number of National Chairmanship aspirants
that have resigned from the party. Others are: Otunba Gbenga Daniel a
former Campaign Director-General for Atiku Abubakar; Prof. Tunde
Adeniran, a former BOT member of PDP and former minister of Education;
and Sen. Rashidi  Ladoja of Oyo State.