By Stephen Adeleye Mopamuro (Kogi), – The rescheduled House of Assembly election in Mopamuro Local Government Area of Kogi has witnessed a very low turnout of voters. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Saturday
postponed the state House of Assembly election across Mopamuro Local
Government Area of Kogi. The Electoral Officer, Mopamuro LGA, Mr Opanachi Ojodale, said that
the election was postponed to Sunday, March 10, due to the wrong ballot
papers that were taken to the area. A NAN Correspondent who monitored the exercise reported that there
was a very low turnout of voters across the polling units visited. NAN reports that the INEC officials arrived various polling units
ahead of the scheduled time (8:00 a.m.) across the 10 wards in the local
government area. The card readers at the various polling units visited also functioned effectively. NAN reports that the low turnout recorded in the re-scheduled
election might not be unconnected with the boycott of PDP members from
the election. The PDP said in a letter to INEC on their boycott: “…Since we believe
that our victory at the polls is not worth the blood of any citizen of
our local government area, after due consideration with our party
hierarchy, we have decided to boycott the election’’. Also, a PDP chieftain in the state and former Deputy Governor, Yomi
Awoniyi, confirmed the withdrawal of the PDP from the re-scheduled
elections. Mr Makinde Oyebode, an APC chieftain, told NAN that the election had
been peaceful, free and fair, saying the turnout was `generally okay’. Responding to the boycott by the PDP, Makinde said that there were 16
political parties participating in the election, saying the boycott by
the PDP would not affect the outcome of the election. He, however, urged the APC supporters to remain calm and be peaceful, while awaiting the announcement of the election results. Another APC member, Mr Gbenga Olanrewaju, commended INEC and the security agencies for the peaceful conduct of the election. A voter, Omolayo Olode, told NAN that the election was peaceful but there was a low turnout of voters. NAN reports that accreditation and voting had stopped in most of the
polling units visited by NAN as at noon, as there was no single voter on
the queue in those units. The counting of votes will commence by 2:00 p.m., according to INEC regulations.