By Mercy Obojeghren Asaba – The Delta State Head of Service, Mr Reginald Bayoko, has said children with disabilities should be shown love and care, in order to give them a sense of belonging in the society. Bayoko made the call on Saturday in Asaba during the 10th anniversary of “Joy in Africa Foundation,’’ a Non-Governmental Organisation based in Asaba which takes care of special needs children. Bayoko, who was represented by Mr Prest Umukoro, of the office of the Head of Service, said: “these children are part of us. What they need from us is love and care. We should assist them with whatever we can to make them comfortable. “It is not easy having a young woman like Joy Iselebor doing the kind of work she is doing. It is not easy gathering these children with special needs. We should make them know that they have a place in society.’’ In his remarks, an official of the Bayelsa State Government, Mr Joseph Mayomi, said he was moved seeing the children at the anniversary, adding that he would give all the assistance to make the children happy and comfortable. “What I have seen is a good development. Right now, I’m spurred to do more because I used to do little for them before. The proprietress is someone who has passion to take care of the less privileged in the society. “She has come a long way, 10 years in the system. I got to know her in 2017 and since then I have been doing my little assistance for her,’’ he said. Also, the State Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education, Mr Chiedu Ebie, said the ministry would assist the foundation in whatever way it could. Ebie, who was represented by Mrs Joy Godson, Director of Schools in the Ministry, expressed satisfaction with the children who were seen studying Mathematics and English. He said that the state government was interested in taking care of the children, adding that a special package would soon be prepared for the foundation. The 10-year anniversary with the theme: “Speak out against stigmatisation, discrimination and abuse of children with disabilities,’’ drew parents of the children among others to the event. Also, a facilitator, Miss Ifua Edun, explained several factors that could lead to children developing deformities during child birth. Edun said some of the causes were genetically related, some diseases, and others are caused by doctors who attended to the pregnant mothers during child birth. She, however, stressed the need for the children to be accepted in society, “they should be shown love to give them a sense of belonging, they should be given a voice and a place in society.’’ On her part, Miss Joy Iselebor, the Proprietor of the foundation, said that God has been using good hearted people to assist the foundation as well as take care of the children. She pledged her continued support for the overall educational, social and moral development of the children. (NAN)