By Polycarp Auta Jos – Ahead of the forthcoming governorship and state houses of ssembly elections slated for March 9, the PDP in Plateau has accused the APC of “plotting to rig the polls” . Chief Damishi Sango, the party’s Chairman in the state, made the allegation at a press conference on Tuesday in Jos. According to Sango, the APC has “perfected plans” to use the security
agents and other critical election stakeholders to rig the polls in its
favour. Sango alleged that the ruling party was plotting to “use the military
to intimidate, harass and cause fear among the people in all parts of
the state”. He further alleged that the ruling party was planning to frustrate
voters in PDP strongholds by tampering with voting machines and ensuring
the late arrival of electoral officials and materials. Sango, however, described the national elections held on Feb. 23 as
“a huge success for the PDP in Plateau”, saying that the opposition won
“in spite of  the heavy rigging”. “The Feb. 23 election was a huge success, but intelligence reports
available to us indicate that the APC and Gov Simon Lalong are busy
working on plans to rig the second exercise. “As I address you, we have detailed information on the specific local
government areas and locations where they intend to intimidate and
harass voters at both polling points and collation centres.” Sango also alleged that civil servants, particularly those on the
directorate cadre, as well as principals of secondary schools, were
under pressure to deliver their areas to the incumbent governor. “From our findings, the officials have been ordered to deliver their
areas in favour of the incumbent government or risk losing their jobs,”
he said. The chairman appealed to the Independent National Electoral
Commission (INEC), and security agents to be neutral and transparent
during and after the elections. “Those saddled with election duties must be transparent and avoid
actions capable of truncating the existing peace in Plateau,” he said. Sango urged Plateau voters to elect Lt. Gen Jeremiah Useni (rtd), for
governor and also vote for PDP candidates contesting house of assembly
seats across the state. “I understand the pains of Plateau people over the massive
cancellation of their votes in certain areas in the national elections,
but I want to appeal to them to put that behind and vote massively for
the PDP so as to restore the lost glory of the state,” he said The chairman appealed to PDP members and supporters to be orderly
during the election, adding, however, that they must be alert and be
determined to ensure that the right thing was done. Reacting to the allegations, Mr Pam Dug Gyang, Director-General of
the APC Governorship Campaign, described the clams as “totally false”. “I am not aware of any plan to rig the elections. We have campaigned
hard and tried to sell our candidate to the Plateau people. We went to
every local government and have embarked on a door-to-door campaign. “We have done a lot to appeal to the voters and we believe they will
vote for us. We have no fear. If we had planned to win by rigging, we
shall not campaign this hard. “Rigging is not in our plans. We do not steal votes. Those who steal
votes are those that think that everyone is doing the same thing. We are
busy and focused on securing the people’s mandate. We won’t be
distracted by such antics,” he told NAN. (NAN) By Huseyn Mbar Bauchi - The All Progressives Congress (APC) polled 798,428 votes to beat… By Yakubu Uba Yola - The governorship candidate of Peoples Democratic Party in Adamawa, Alhaji… By Amina Ahmed Bauchi - The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship  candidate in Bauchi state,…