Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Rivers State
governor, Nyesom Wike, has advised security agencies to
save their energy to fight Boko Haram and apply
best practices while on election duty in the state on Saturday. “Security agencies please perform your duties in line with the rules governing
elections,” Mr Wike said on Monday during a town hall in Bori, Khana Local
Government Area of the state. “Conserve your energy to fight Boko Haram and
violent crimes.” Mr Wike has been criticising security
agencies in the state, accusing them of taking side against the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the general elections. His remarks at the town hall were posted
on Twitter, through his account @GovWike. “If they like, they should bring Police,
Army and thugs from all over the world; we are quite confident that we shall
smile on March 9, 2019. Come out and vote for people you can vouch for,”
Governor Wike told the people who attended the town hall. “Just be vigilant and protect your
votes. We have no security with us, but we have the ‘Chief Security Officer of
the world’ on our side,” the governor said. The governor blamed the All Progressives
Congress (APC) for the election violence in the state. “Where are the children of the APC
leaders preaching violence in Rivers State. Nobody in Rivers State ran for the
post of President and Vice President on February 23, 2019, yet the APC visited
deaths on Rivers people. “APC fought themselves and pushed themselves
out of the race. Now, they want to kill everyone in the state. What is the
offence of Rivers people that we must all
die because the APC excluded themselves from the ballot?” the governor said. APC reacts The APC, in their response to Mr Wike’s
remarks, said the governor should be held responsible for what was happening in
the state. “Wike is the merchant of violence,” the
APC spokesperson in the state, Chris Finebone, told PREMIUM TIMES, Tuesday. “Rivers State knew peace all through the
time (Rotimi) Amaechi was governor. It was only when Wike came to power that
all hell broke loose, and we have had this bad,” Mr Finebone said. ‘Blame
Game’ The relationship between the Rivers
government and the security agencies have been on its lowest ebb since the inception of the All Progressives Congress
(APC)-led federal government in 2015. Rivers is under the control of the PDP,
and Mr Wike, who is a critic of President Muhammadu Buhari and his
administration, is one of the most influential leaders in the party. The governor has often accused the
police and the army in the state of planning to kill him. Both the police and
the army have repeatedly denied such
accusation. The Nigerian army recently, in turn,
accused Mr Wike of attempting to bribe a military chief, Jamil Sarham, a major
general and the General Officer Commanding (GOC) the 6 Division of the Nigerian
army, because of the 2019 general elections. The Rivers government responded by
saying the military was trying to divert attention from the “atrocities they
are committing in Rivers because of the elections”.