By Doris Esa Abuja – Nigeria’s Air Force has deployed NAF aircraft, including intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance platforms to various flash points in support of other security agencies to ensure peaceful elections on Saturday. Force Spokesman, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola said this in a
statement issued in Abuja on Wednesday and made available to newsmen. Daramola said that Nigeria’s Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique
Abubakar made the disclosure during his operational briefing to
Principal Staff Officers and Commanding Officers at the headquarters in
Abuja. The force spokesman said the decision was in line with the Chief of
Defence Staff, General Abayomi Olonisakin’s directive, which also
mandated security agencies to ensure peaceful conduct of the
governorship and states assembly elections. According to him, contingency plans have been made in the event of any break down of law and order. “The NAF Hospitals and medical centres have also been put on alert to assist in attending to any medical emergencies,” he said. He directed Air Officers Commanding and field commanders to ensure
peaceful polls and safety of lives and property during the March 9
elections. “In line with the need to ensure peaceful conduct of the
gubernatorial and state assembly elections, the Chief of the Air Staff
has directed officers to ensure safety of lives and property in their
various locations,” Daramola said. He said it was the responsibility of officers on election duty to
protect the security of lives and property of Nigerians during the
polls. According to him, air force personnel on election duty have been told
to exude the highest level of professionalism in the discharge of their
duties. “All NAF personnel are to remain professional in the discharge of
their duties while ensuring that no individual or group of individuals
is allowed to undermine the electoral process. “They must endeavour to operate in accordance with the Code of
Conduct promulgated by Defence Headquarters for members of the armed
forces during elections,” he said.