By Ibrahim G. Ahmad Anka (Zamfara) – Gov. Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara has called for the opening of a permanent military base in Kawaye general area in Anka Local Government to curb incessant banditry in the locality. The governor made the call on Saturday when paid a condolence visit
to the community over the killing of 13 persons and abduction of 60
villagers by armed bandits on Tuesday. Yari said the deployment of troops to the general area would help in
confronting the security challenges facing communities there, and
restore their crippled economy. He assured that the government would not forgive those involved in
the dastardly act and promised that they would be hunted down until
peace is restored. Yari said: “The state government will do everything possible to bring such people to justice. “What I saw in these communities is a serious crime to the economy and an attempt to instigate citizens against government. “Knowing that one of the primary responsibilities of every government
is to protect lives and property, by their act they are trying to show
government is not capable. “Nigeria and the Nigerian Army are stronger than any criminal group
and since they do not want us to live in peace, they will not be
spared.” Earlier, the Emir of Anka, Alhaji Attahiru Ahmed thanked the governor
for the condolence visit and efforts being made in handling the
security challenges in the area. He also called for massive deployment of security personnel to the
area, adding that Kawaye general area was strategic in tackling banditry
in the state. The emir called on communities to compliment government efforts by
providing useful information on the movement of the bandits to security
agencies. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the bandits, who
attacked the village at about 5:00pm on Tuesday, killed 13, burnt
vehicles, shops and houses before abducting over 60 people, including
the village head. However, 19 of those abducted had returned home, leaving over 40, mostly women, in the hands of the abductors. (NAN) By Pulse The original ‘Omo Baba Olowo’, Davido, is really pushing up the scales in… By Uche Bibilari Abuja - Mr Abel Enitan, the new Permanent Secretary posted to the… By Habibu Harisu Sokoto, - Gov. Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State has confirmed the death…