By Temitope Salami Ogbere No fewer than 250 women farmers in Ehin Osun, Ijebu-East Local Government Area of Ogun,  have received free breast cancer and diabetes screening. The one-day programme was organised by OLAM Nigeria Ltd, an
agro-allied company in conjunction with the Action Health Incorporated, a
Non-governmental Organisation. The programme was organised in commemoration of the International Women’s Day often marked on March 8. Speaking on the sidelines of the screening, Mr Fatai Omisanya, a
local government official, said it was imperative for women to be
orientated on the value of good living. He said the initiative by the organisers was both commendable and beneficial to the women and farming community in the area. “The programme is not only about breast cancer screening, it’s also
to create awareness on how to maintain good personal hygiene daily. “Routine checks are necessary not only to prevent them from falling
ill but also necessary to curtail the spread of infectious diseases.’’ Similarly, OLAM’s license buying agent in Ijebu axis, Mr Sunday
Adeniyi,  said the screening was organised to complement the efforts of
the state government in ensuring women in  rural areas have access to
adequate healthcare. “When such interventions are organised, we implore our rural dwellers
to always take advantage of them  because health is wealth. “We have done enough to bring this programme to our door steps in other to have quality  health care. “They must endeavour to make themselves available for the screening
as our medical team is  fully equipped to take care of all prognosis,”
Adeniyi said. Miss Funso Bukoye, the Action Health Incorporated representative,
said the NGO is tasked with promoting the wellbeing of youths and women
across Nigeria. “In line with the theme of the International Women’s Day, ‘Balance
for Better’, which advocates for gender equality, there is no better way
to promote such if women are marginalised in healthcare delivery. “What is being done here today, if replicated the more, especially as
relates to the scourge of breast cancer, will secure a future of
fulfilled dreams for women everywhere,” she said.