By Ayinde Olaide Abdulsaheed Bauchi – There was wild jubilation by residents  of Bauchi  on Monday night as the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared the governorship candidate of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), Sen. Bala Muhammed, the winner of the gubernatorial race in the state . The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)
reports that the residents thronged major highways in the state capital,
chanting  ‘Sai Kaura’ (Bala Mohammed), eulogising the governors-elect. Also on display were musical
instruments such as drums, flutes, trumpets and saxophones, just as the
celebrants danced to tunes of blaring music. Speaking to NAN, one of the
celebrants,  Miss Aisha Usman, said they were celebrating the outcome of
the final result as declared by INEC, adding that God had answered
their prayers. “We are celebrating the outcome of
the results of the election as INEC has finally declared the man of the
people, Sen. Bala Muhammed, the winner of the governorship race. “This is what we have been praying for and God has anwered the prayers of the masses,” she said. Another celebrant, Miss Abigail Haruna, said the governor-elect was a
good man, with high spirit of patrotism, hence, their unwavering
support for him. She expressed optimism the the new governor would not disappoint the people of the state. Also speaking with NAN, Mr Ismail
Raji said the people of Bauchi had voted for the change they desired,
adding that the effort had yielded dividend. “I am very happy that I am witnessing today that the change we wanted hS been actualized. “I thank God that the final result favoured the Peoples’ Democratic
Party and Senator Bala Muhammed in particular; Bala Muhammed is the
change we wanted in Bauchi state,” Raji said. NAN reports that some motorcyclists also filled the streets of the
metropolis,  displaying various riding skills to celebrate the victory. Sen. Bala Muhammed of the Peoples Democratic Party  polled 515,113
votes to defeat the incumbent governor, Muhammed Abubakar, who garnerd
500,625 votes.