 By Felix Ugboja Nigeria has toppled Egypt as the highest producer of rice in Africa. The country now produces enough rice for her teeming population, thanks to a government policy that placed a restriction on importation of certain goods and products, especially those the country can produce on its own. The Central Bank of Nigeria in June 2015 under the leadership of Mr. Godwin Emefiele, the governor of the apex bank, excluded importers of 41 goods and services from accessing foreign exchange at the Nigerian foreign exchange markets in order to encourage local production of these items. Subsequently, with the addition of fertilizer and textile products, the list grew to 43. This action by CBN was
taken in its efforts to sustain foreign exchange market stability and ensure
the efficient utilization of foreign exchange as well as ensuring that optimum
benefit is derived from goods and services imported into the country. The policy implies that
those who import these items can no longer buy foreign currency from the
official window to pay the overseas suppliers. Rather, they will have to source
forex from the parallel market or Bureau De Change to pay for their imports. It was also intended to
significantly grow the local economy. According to the CBN Governor, Godwin
Emiefele, Nigeria does not need to keep importing things she can produce. With dwindling
income from oil, it was time the country took drastic steps to diversify the
economy by supporting local production. The affected 41 Items are
listed below along with their economic sectors, GDP Size, a few companies
operating in the sectors and their contributions to GDP in 2014 and Q1 2015
with data supplied by the National Bureau of Statistics, Abuja Nigeria (NBS). Ever since, there has been
a significant increase in the production of agricultural crops like rice, wheat,
maize, millet, yam and many more. A brilliant idea was introduced to make this happen. Most farmers were supported with credits unanimously called the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme . Anchor Borrowers’ Programme The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in line with its developmental function established the Anchor Borrowers’ Program (ABP). The Programme which was launched by President Muhammadu Buhari (GCFR) on November 17, 2015 is intended to create a linkage between anchor companies involved in the processing and small holder farmers (SHFs) of the required key agricultural commodities. The programme thrust of the ABP is provision of farm inputs in kind and cash (for farm labor) to small holder farmers to boost production of these commodities, stabilise inputs supply to agro-processors and address the country’s negative balance of payments on food. At harvest, the SHF supplies his/her produce to the Agro-processor (Anchor) who pays the cash equivalent to the farmer’s account. Mr Emiefele said that the
programme had created economic linkages between smallholder farmers and
reputable large-scale crop processors, with a view to increasing agricultural
output and capacity utilisation of integrated mills. Emefiele noted that ABP
had closed the gaps between local rice production and domestic consumption,
while complementing the Growth Enhancement Support (GES) Scheme of FMARD by
facilitating the transformation of GES-farmers from subsistence farming to
commercial farming. Job Creation While he was also speaking
at the annual bankers’ dinner in December last year, the CBN Governor stated
that the programme has created 2.5 million jobs across the country. According to Emefiele, “As
at October 2018, a total number of 862,069 farmers cultivating about 835,239
hectares, across 16 different commodities, have so far benefited from the
Anchor Borrowers programme, which has generated over 2.5 million jobs across
the country. He said: “It is in light
of the success of the Anchor Borrowers Program with regards to cultivation of
rice and maize that the Monetary Policy Committee in its last meeting on the
21st of November 2018 recommended that the Anchor Borrowers program be applied
to other areas such as palm oil, tomatoes, and fisheries to mention a few. “The CBN recently
introduced the Real Sector Support fund; a facility meant to provide cheap
funding at no more than nine percent to new projects in the Agriculture and
manufacturing sectors; aimed at boosting output and creating jobs.’’ Economist Applauds CBN Ban on Textile Products An economics and financial
analyst, David Ibidapo, has applauded the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)
decision to ban further allocation of scarce foreign exchange on importation of
textiles and garments into the country. Mr Ibidapo said that the
amount of foreign exchange spent on funding the importation of textiles and
garments was more than half of the amount need to finance the nation’s budget
deficit. He commended the CBN for
its policy to add all forms of textile materials on the list of items
restricted from accessing foreign exchange from the CBN at official exchange
rate. CBN Governor, Godwin
Emefiele, also recently said Nigeria currently spends above $4 billion annually
on imported textiles and ready-made clothing. Also, Mr Ibidapo said the
restriction would reduce pressure on FOREX and inspire local production of
textiles for both local and international consumption. “This is a good initiative
by the CBN, because if you look at what we spend on importation it is about 50
per cent of our budget deficit. And imagine if that amount is being generated
internally, it will automatically impact on our Gross Domestic Product (GDP). “This will also inspire
local production of textiles with the single digit rate the CBN is promising
local textile industries that are interested in getting loans. “It will also lessen
pressure on FOREX as demand for it to import these textiles into the country
pressures down the value of the naira against the dollar,” said the expert. According to him, it is
high time the nation controlled the levels of goods imported; saying too much
dependence on importation was killing local industries due to unhealthy
competition with foreign goods. Mr Ibidapo said
considering Nigeria’s rising population, it will serve as a very good
investment hub for foreign investors and companies because of the very ready
market it had waiting to buy these goods. However, he said once the
country begins to ban some items the country has the capacity to produce, then
this same rising population will purchase what we are producing locally and the
sectors will begin to contribute significantly to the GDP. The economist said the
only way Nigeria can alleviate poverty was to grow the economy at an average of
10 per cent every year, from the two percent the country is currently
struggling with. He said the country needs
to continue in the direction the CBN has toed, in addition to giving loans to
the textile industry value chain at a single digit interest rate. Mr Ibidapo said in the
long run it would boost the country’s GDP and create employment. When these factories begin
to boom, he said there would be more employment, which would translate into
income that would be circulated in the economy to achieve the needed growth. He, however, said
achieving growth through such initiatives was solely dependent on the
government willingness to be committed to the policy to clampdown on smugglers. “I think we can achieve
the desired result only if the government can really reduce the activities of
smugglers and make the process of getting loans for the textile industry not
too complex. “Professionalism and specialisation will also improve, the government should be committed to the policies and in making it work; it is very achievable. “If they can replicate
this in other sectors and try to boost production of the items we import in our
country, we will produce for the country and also export as demand for these
products will increase and with that the value for our currency will begin to
appreciate,” Mr Ibidapo explained. In 2015, the CBN
restricted the availability of foreign exchange to the importation of 41 items
which could be competitively produced within the economy and the list has
increased overtime. Since then, the CBN has
raised the number of items affected on the list to 43, with the inclusion of
fertilizer and textile products. A New Phase for Corn Farmers According to the Bank of Agriculture boss, the Nigerian corn farmers have begun N3bn CBN loan repayment. As Nigeria sought to
import 300,000 tons of maize last month to meet its consumption demand of 11.3
million tons, the country’s maize farmers have begun the repayment process that
sees the central bank of Nigeria recouping as much as N3 billion in loan from
the farmers. The CBN, through the
Anchor Borrowers Scheme in the last farming season, disbursed about N3 billion
to the Maize Association of Nigeria (MAAN) via the Bank of Agriculture. Bank of Agriculture chief,
Kabiru Umar, said the farmers’ body promised an initial payment of N1.2 billion
this week, without giving details on when the remaining balance of N1.8 billion
would be paid. “We are expecting as
initial repayment is N1.2 billion, like the President of MAAN has said which he
promised me, by this week, they will make that repayment to the bank. MAAN got
about N3 billion during the first season. “The agreement we have
with them is that repayment will be 30 per cent initial repayment, then 40
percent during the second season and then 30 percent during the last season, so
with the N1.2 billion they have made promised to repay, we will closely monitor
them, we will still support them for the next season,” Umar said. CBN Policy: ‘A Revolution’ for Farmers The Minister of
Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, believes that the Federal Government’s
ban of some items and the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme has led to a revolution
in rice production across the country. On his visit to farms
across states last year, he said the benefits that have accrued to rice farmers
in the provision of improved seedling, farm input and extension services have
led to the increase of yield per hectare from 2.5 to between 10 and 11 metric
tonnes. “Two years ago, Nigeria used to import 644,000 metric tonnes of rice from Thailand. Today, we import less than 20,000 metric tonnes…..But I think the most important thing for us in Nigeria is to see that officially we have been able to eliminate over 90% of rice importation into Nigeria,” the Minister said. He said that a new pilot
scheme that targets the cultivation of 200,000 hectares of rice has taken off
with 31,000 farmers being empowered by the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme. He said that already, the
Federal Government has grown the number of rice farmers from 5 million two
years ago to over 12 million currently. He also commended the
synergy between the Federal and State Governments in rice farming, and
disclosed that the Federal Government plans to embark on an aggressive advocacy
for Nigerians to know the benefits of consuming locally-produced rice. “The rice in Nigerian is
safer, more nutritious and healthier than the one being imported. The one being
imported has been stored for several years, perhaps in very bad condition and
it is not safe to consume,” he said. CBN’s decision to ban the
import of some products and the subsequent economic policies that followed has
indeed stimulated the local economy. There is a growing sense of the need to
produce what we eat, not only because it is economically reasonable but because
it is possible. The CBN believes in the potential of Nigeria to be a leading
export country rather than one dependent on others. It is the hope of many
that these policies are sustained in order to reap the long term results.