By Chimezie Anaso Abagana – The Anambra Sports Development Commission (ASDC) has unveiled the brand logo for its monthly Walk for Life exercise for all residents. Tony Oli, chairman of ASDC, performed the ceremony at the end of the
5th edition of the walk which had its start-off point at Amawbia in Awka
South Local Government Area and terminated at Abagana, Njikoka. Oli said the unveiling of the branded T shirts was part of the value
addition to the exercise which entered its 5th edition in March. He also kitted Osita Obijiofor, a staff of the commission and a
participant in the exercise with a branded T shirt and football as Walk
for Life ambassador. “As we launch the official brand for this walk, we keep improving on
every edition, we are now in the 5th edition and as we keep gathering
momentum, we make efforts to make it better. “We have our first winner of this branded T-shirt who will be our
brand ambassador, our hope is that we will get brand partners who will
key into what we are doing,” he said. The chairman said efforts were on to ensure the walk which was meant
for people of all ages and social strata took place simultaneously in
the major cities of Anambra on every first Saturday of the month. He said the next edition of the 10km walk would hold at Nnewi to also create awareness in that area. “So far we have done 50km; our target is that we will cover 120km this year. “Next month, we will be at Nnewi, the long term idea is that every
first Saturday of the month people anywhere in Anambra will be walking
at least 10km. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the February edition of the monthly Walk held in Onitsha. Willy Nwokoye who had taken part in every edition of the walk said the gains could not be quantified. Nwokoye, the Principal Secretary to Gov. Willie Obiano, said the walk
was also to encourage Anambra electorate to come out en mass in March
to support the governor by ensuring victory for candidates of the All
Progressives Grand Alliance running for State House of Assembly. NAN also reports that officials of the Federal Road Safety Commission
(FRSC), Anambra Transport Management Authority, Operation Clean and
Health, Anambra and other agencies were on ground to ensure free-flow of
traffic and orderliness. By SundiataPOST, Abuja The Anambra government targets two million children for integrated measles campaign in… AWKA -  Gov. Willie Obiano of Anambra State on Tuesday signed a memorandum of understanding with Rockland Development Ltd for the… Awka - The Anambra Police Command, on Tuesday, said it had arrested 14 suspects for various…