 Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The National Civil Society Association Against Corruption has commended the work of the 8th National Assembly in the fight against corruption. In a Press Conference delivered in Abuja, by the convener of the group, Pastor Bolaji Obasa, the group stated that the 8th National Assembly’s quick intervention on the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) Bill, has led to the recent withdrawal from the list of high-risk states with deficiencies in money laundering and terrorism financing controls by the Council of Europe. “The 8th National Assemblies’ quick intervention on the issue in 2018, led to the swift passage of the Bill. Without that Bill which was passed within a month or so, Nigeria, which was already suspended from the EGMONT Group, would have been expelled from the group. “However, what we are seeing today is a clear testament of the work of a responsive legislature. Because of the leadership that our Senators and Representatives showed last year by passing the NFIU Bill, which created an autonomous Financial Intelligence Unit in the country, Nigeria still has access to the resources of the EGMONT Group, which is a network of 152 Member Countries that share information relating to criminal intelligence and financial investigations.” Co-Convener of NCSAAA, and Chairman of the Young Patriots Foundation (YPF), Barrister Abba Mustapha, who spoke at the Press Conference delivered in Abuja, emphasised the work that the outgoing National Assembly has played in the fight against corruption. “As things stand, this 8th National Assembly has played a major role in the fight to strengthen our institutional capabilities to respond to corruption and limit corrupt activities. “This National Assembly has passed several significant Bills like the Whistleblower Protection Act, the Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Bill, the Witness Protection Bill, and of course, the NFIU Bill, which is being celebrated the world over. “We can now see that barely 8 months after the passage of the Bill by the National Assembly and its subsequent assent by Mr. President, on March 2019, Nigeria was officially withdrawn as a High Risk Third Country by the Council of Europe. This withdrawal from the list also leaves significant room for the European Commission and the European Parliament to align their positions with the Council of Europe, which will eventually ensure that we are stronger in our fight against corruption,” Mustapha said. Signed: Pastor Bolaji Obasa
Convener, National Civil Society Association Against Anti-Corruption Barrister Abba Mustapha
Chairman, Young Patriots Foundation 
Co-Convener, National Civil Society Association Against Anti-Corruption