By Rabiu Sani Maiduguri – The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), says it has developed a Recovery Data-Base to fast track sustainable humanitarian interventions in Borno. Ms Eno Jonathan, UNDP’s Communication Analyst in the Northeast, stated this in a statement in Maiduguri on Sunday. She said the data base was developed under the support of European Union Humanitarian Aid Operations (ECHO) programme. Eno disclosed that the programme is designed to address critical
information and enhance coordination of gaps for sustainable recovery in
the state. “The Borno State Ministry of Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and
Resettlement (MRRR) is supported with establishment of a recovery
database that highlights damage in the state, and what has been provided
by different agencies so that gaps can easily be identified online,”
she said. Eno explained that the 20-months ECHO project was successfully
implemented in Adamawa, Borno and Yobe, aimed at enhancing access to
safe drinking water and providing livelihoods support to conflict
affected communities. The UNDP official revealed that five boreholes were rehabilitated and
reticulation system upgraded in Damboa in Borno, to supply water to
communities and five Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps in the
area. She added that over 70 personnel of the state Rural Water Supply
Agency (RUWASA) were trained to enhance water supply to communities in
the state. Jonathan said that the UN agency also encouraged displaced persons to
set up cooperative societies in 10 pilot communities in Borno, Adamawa
and Yobe; under its Village Savings and Loans Association (VSLA)
programme. “The associations made up of IDPs and members of host communities
were given revolving loans to start businesses and social funds for
community development projects such as renovation of boreholes, clinics,
drains and establishment of skills acquisition centers,” she said. According to her, two handbooks on Water Resource Management (VSLA)
and Recovery Data Base were unveiled at the rounding up ceremony of the
ECHO project on Saturday in Maiduguri.