… Calls on Buhari to Complete the Bridge on River Benue at
Bagana in Kogi East By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Senator representing Kogi East Senatorial district,
Senator Isaac Alfa has said he is not in the senate for personal benefits, but
to struggle for the interest of his people who stood by him through thick and
thin. Senator Alfa also called on President Muhammadu Buhari to
complete the bridge on River Benue at Bagana in Kogi East and build new
ones on River Niger at Idah-Agenebode and Lokoja-Shintaku for security of the
country ant to ease movement of goods and services Sundiata Post recalls that Senator Alfa has been in a protracted
legal battle to regain his mandate in the last three and a half years He made this remarks while briefing the press at the National
Assembly on Tuesday after plenary. He said in the course of his legal battle,
his case went to 34 different judges with 11 judgments out which he won
10. Senator Alfa, a former Chief of Air Staff and a member of the Provincial Ruling
Council, PRC said the “Senate was a service to my people, bringing this large
tribe to where it ought to stay”, adding that he was determined to regain his
mandate so that his people’s decision must count whenever they decide to field
their choice. “Now, my people fell liberated and are encouraged to insist on their choice, as
I have shown that with God on your side, the Judiciary will give you justice”.
Air Marshal Alfa (rtd) also has some kind words for the Nigerian judges despite
the perception in various circles that they are corrupt. He said in the course
of his three and a half legal battle he didn’t give a dime to any judge, but he
got justice, adding that he still believes that there are many “incorruptible
judges” in Nigeria. The former Chief of Air Staff called on the government to reform the Nigeria
Police including the Police Service Commission, PSC,  giving them adequate
training and retraining, because the PSC as currently composed cannot disciple
any Police officer. “If Police is up and doing, you won’t need DSS to run after
any judges”, said.