By Tukur Muntari Kano – Ahead of the forthcoming governorship and House of Assembly elections, Ethnic Community Leaders Association Kano (ECLAK), have endorsed Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje’s reelection bid. This is contained in a statement issued on Wednesday in Kano by President ECLAK, Dr Jimpat Ayelsngbe and Chief Augustine Tarasi Colly, the Ovie -Obi 1, Kano Delta Community for Traditional leaders. According to the statement, the decision to support Ganduje was taken
during a joint meeting of the leaders held at the Eze Ndigbo’s Palace
in Kano. It called on Igbos, Yorubas and other non indigenes resident in the
state to come out en-mass to vote for the incumbent governor during
Saturday’s governorship election. “Dr Ganduje deserves a second term in view of his contributions to
peaceful coexistence and developmental programmes in Sabon-Gari. “It is good to praise the goose that lays a golden egg, “the statement said. According to the statement, the leaders during the meeting recalled
the provision of health care facilities and ‘ repair of roads in the
area, abandoned by previous administration. “In addition, for the past four years under his regime, no single
riot or violence was recorded and which came about as a result of multi
-religious annual conference. “We hereby resolve to consolidate by subsuming our individual
political differences to support him with our massive votes as a way of
reducing rancour, creating conductive environment for good governance
and enterprise through empowerment of Sabon-Gari residents,” it added. The leaders said they also resolved to support Ganduje because he is a
detribalised Nigerian in the forefront of abrogation of
indigenes/settlers dichotomy. “He must be supported for peaceful united Nigeria and continuity of good governance, “the statement said. By Harrison Arubu Abuja - The Youngstars Development Initiative (YDI) has called for a secure… By Hilary Akalugwu Nsukka - Prof Godfrey Onah, the Catholic Bishop of Nsukka Diocese, on… By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has cautioned President…