By Ejike Obeta Asaba – The Super Eagles trained behind closed doors on Wednesday as they intensified training at the Stephen Keshi Stadium in Asaba for Friday’s clash with their counterparts from Seychelles. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Eagles, after
facing Seychelles in the 2019 AFCON qualifiers, will take on the
Pharaohs of Egypt on Tuesday in a friendly. Toyin Ibitoye, the team’s Media Officer, told NAN at the stadium that
the players were in high spirits preparing for the task ahead of them. “The players are in high spirits. We are happy. We have been here in
the past. The last time, we enjoyed our stay and that’s why we are here
again. “Right now, we are training to win our match on Friday and also to win our friendly with Egypt on Monday,” he said. Ibitoye commended the Delta Government for its commitment to sports
development, especially in providing sports facilities at the stadium
and ensuring the welfare of its sports men and women. Meanwhile, some football fans in and around Asaba have expressed
disappointment at not being allowed to watch the national team’s
training session on Wednesday. One of them, Amechi Moka, told NAN he was disappointed to be turned
back by security operatives after traveling from nearby Ibusa to Asaba
to catch a glimpse of the players. Moka however said he was going to stay outside the stadium’s main
bowl till the end of the training session in order to catch sight of the
players. He said this would be possible when they were entering their bus. The football fan added that he was going to do all he could to be at the stadium on Friday for the AFCON qualifying match. Another fan, Favour Okoye, said it was not right for the fans to be
denied access into the stadium to watch the Eagles’ training. Okoye, however, observed that the measure could have been introduced to avoid the players being distracted. NAN reports that hundreds of football fans waited outside the stadium
as only journalists were allowed just 20 minutes to watch the training
session.