ONITSHA (Sundiata Post) – No fewer than 18,000 Christians especially women, children and the elderly and thousands of sacred places of worship and homes as well as lands belonging to indigenous Christians in Nigeria may be lost to Jihadist Fulani herdsmen in Nigeria’s Middle Belt and other regions under the current Administration of President Muhammadu Buhar between June 2015 and 1st June 2023. According
to the International Society for Civil Liberties and the Rule of Law
(Intersociety) in a report sent to Sundiata Post on Monday “Going by
available research findings or statistics, the projected killing of over
18,000 Christians by  jihadist Fulani herdsmen and destruction of
thousands of homes and sacred places of worship and seizure and
confiscation of tens of thousands of acres of Christian lands will
outnumber the total number of Christians killed, properties including
churches destroyed or lands confiscated by the terror Fulani herdsmen in
the past 16 years of June 1999 and June 2015. The remaining 2000
Christian deaths, making the total deaths 20,000 are expected to come
from military violence and Christian victims of Boko Haram insurgency
and allied others. The projected loss would have fully occurred between
June 2015 and June 2023. By 1st June 2023, the elected tenure of
President Buhari must have legally ended.” Intersociety is a
research and investigative rights, democracy and public security
advocacy group led by criminologists, lawyers, peace and conflict
resolution experts, specific and general rights activists, etc.The full statement reads: Under
President Muhammadu Buhari who is the life patron of the Miyetti Allah
Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria; the parent body of the Fulani
herdsmen in Nigeria, killing of Christians, destruction or burning of
Christian sacred places of worship and houses and seizure and
confiscation of indigenous Christian lands have recorded a geometric
increase particularly since June 2015; with the Administration doing
little or nothing including refusal to end the massacre and fish out the
perpetrators and put them on trial. The present central
Government in Nigeria has steadily trivialised the pure anti Christian
genocide, describing it as “herders-farmers clashes” and structured its
security forces particularly the Nigerian Army along anti secular lines
stripping same of required neutrality, competence and capability to step
in and end the butcheries.  Killings and property destructions and land
seizures by jihadist Fulani herdsmen are solely targeted at the
Nigerian Christian population particularly in the Middle Belt Region;
putting the lives and safety of estimated 30 million Northern Nigerian
Christians in jeopardy including constant threats to their religious
freedoms, deaths, injuries, sexual violence, forceful conversion to
Islamic faith and forced migration or displacement. The
re-emergence through the 2019 polls by President Muhammadu Buhari and
Governor Nasiru el-Rufai of Kaduna State are widely viewed as a
nightmare for religious freedom of Christians in Nigeria particularly
those in the Middle Belt and Kaduna State. The elections that brought
the duo back to power are widely held to be massively rigged and
crooked. In the Kaduna State governorship poll of 9th March 2019, the
total number of voters accredited to vote (1.46m) was reported to have
been surpassed by the total number of valid votes cast (1.85m) with over
400,000 votes. Whipping up radical Islamism sentiments also widely
heralded the election campaigns of the duo particularly in the Muslim
held northern Nigeria where they were hailed as “true crusaders of
Allah” for condoning pro jihadist genocide. Governor el-Rufai’s
jihadist and hateful disposition against members of Christian and other
non Muslim faith climaxed way back in February 2019 when he raised a
questionable and inciting public alarm claiming that “as much as 130
Fulani Muslims were targeted and massacred by some indigenous Christian
elements in Southern part of the State”. When his questionable alarm was
strongly challenged by some concerned bodies including SOKAPU, a
southern Kaduna indigenous body, he got his fellow Muslim Army commander
in the State to back his claims but failed to publicly provide
statistical and pathological evidence to substantiate same; only for the
State Commissioner of Police to distance himself and his Command from
his unsubstantiated claims. It was later found that the
questionable alarm was raised by the governor for electoral reasons
leading to seemingly government-backed coordinated attacks on some
Christian villages in the state and killing of no fewer than 130 of them
and destruction of over 170 houses including churches. The attacks
mostly launched on the Adara indigenous Christians in Kajuru LGA of
Kaduna State took place between 10th Feb and 16th March 2019. In
all, no fewer than 200 Christians have been killed since the beginning
of Jan 2019 or in past two and half months of 2019; with Southern Kaduna
being the worst hit with not less than 130 Christian deaths. The
remaining 70 Christian deaths which occurred between last week of
December 2018 and first week of March 2019 are shared by Adamawa,
Taraba, Plateau and Benue States. Killings by jihadist Fulani
herdsmen have intensified, escalated and increased with wide margin
since President Muhhamadu Buhari took over the mantle of leadership in
Nigeria in mid 2015. The killings solely targeted at Christians are
accompanied by burning or destruction of houses including Christian
sacred places of worship and seizure and confiscation of lands belonging
to indigenous Christians. By several research findings, jihadist Fulani
herdsmen have now surpassed killings perpetrated by the Boko Haram
insurgents. Going by our several research and investigative
findings, killings by jihadist Fulani herdsmen have maintained steady
and shocking increase since 2016 outnumbering the death figures of the
preceding years. In 2014, by the account of the Global Terror Index of
the International Institute for Peace, 1,229 Christian deaths were
recorded in Nigeria in the hands of jihadist Fulani herdsmen. It is also
our finding that between Jan and June 2015, some 631 Christians were
killed by Fulani jihadists and between July and December 2015, about 525
Christian deaths were recorded. Further, a total of not less
than 1,300 Christians were killed by the Fulani jihadists between
January and December 2016. The death figures increased to 1,700 between
January and Dec 2017 and further increased by almost 50 per cent to
2,400 between January and third week of December 2018; leading to total
Christian deaths by Fulani Jihadists since June 2015 of not less than
5,925. Over 2,800 Christians lost their lives to Boko Haram
insurgents and “Zamfara bandits” within the period excluding not less
than 970 Christian lives lost to outlawed military violence in Nigeria;
bringing the total Christian lives lost under Buhari since June 2015 to
not less than 9,700. For more details, see the following link for
intersociety’s statement of 2nd July 2018: https://www.thenigerianvoice.com/news/267863/massacre-of-christians-in-nigeria-1750-killed-by-fulani-ji.html That
is to say that with projected Christian deaths of 2,500 in the hands of
jihadist Fulani herdsmen per annum, not less than 18,000 Christian
lives will be lost in Nigeria by year 2023 when Buhari’s central
Government would elapse. The remaining 2,000 Christian deaths or more
are expected to come from other non State actor killings such as Boko
Haram and “Muslim banditry attacks” as well as military violence
expected to escalate or intensify in the second term of the Buhari
Administration. Totality of these brings to not less than 20, 000
Christian deaths expected to fully occur by year 2023. The exception to
this projection can only occur if the central Government is judicially
ousted on account of being an alleged beneficiary of the roguish
Presidential Poll of 2019. Already, a total of not less than
9,700 Christian lives have been lost between June 2015 and December 2018
to jihadist Fulani herdsmen (5,925), Boko Haram and “Zamfara bandits”
(2803) and military violence (970); and in the next four and half years
of the Buhari Administration or Jan 2019 to 29th May 2023 (if not ousted
by courts), the jihadist Fulani Herdsmen will kill not less than 12,000
Christians with additional 2000 Christian deaths expected from three
others named above; totaling not less than 20,000 Christian deaths
projected to occur between June 2015 and 1st June 2023. The
number of attacks on Christian sacred places of worship and destruction
or burning of houses and seizure and confiscation of lands belonging to
indigenous Christians is also expected to record sharp increases in the
next  four and half years. By recent account of the Government of
Plateau State, “1,803 mostly Christian lives were lost to jihadist
Fulani herdsmen” during recent attacks (2018) in the State. On the part
of the Government of Benue State, “over 600 Christians were killed in
2018 alone”. The Benue State Branch of the Christian Association of
Nigeria, CAN, also said that it lost over 500 churches to jihadist
Fulani herdsmen attacks in recent years (2011-2017). During the
heightened anti-Christian terror days of Boko Haram in Northern Nigeria,
over 1.3m Christians were forced to flee their homes, 13,000 churches
and 1,500 Christian schools were lost to Boko Haram attacks. Over 1000
churches have been lost to jihadist Fulani attackers in the Middle Belt
since June 2015 and in the next four and half years, more 1000-2000
churches will be lost with thousands of homes and indigenous lands
belonging to indigenous Christians lost or destroyed. By the account of
the Christian Open Doors Int’l, USA (2015), “over 13,000 churches and
1,500 Christian schools were destroyed or burnt; with over 11,500
Christians killed and over 1.3 million Christians forced to flee their
homes to escape being hacked to death by Boko Haram Jihadists between
2009 and 2014”. Over 200 Christian Lives Lost To Fulani Jihadists In The Last Two & Half Months Of 2019 Over
200 Christian lives have already been lost to Fulani Jihadists in their
various coordinated and unchecked attacks launched against Christians
and their settlements in Kaduna, Plateau, Benue, Adamawa and Taraba
States. Of the total Christians killed, Southern Kaduna particularly the
Adara People in Kajuru LGA are the worst hit with not less than 120
deaths between 10th Feb and 11th March 2019. Additional ten Christians
were killed by Fulani Jihadists on Saturday, 16th March 2019 in
Nandu-Gbok village in Sanga Local Government Area of Kaduna State;
bringing the number of Christian lives lost in the State in the past 35
days to at least 130. By combined recent accounts of the
Christian Post International (15th March 2019) and Nigeria’s Daily Post
(12th March 2019), no fewer than 130 Christians were massacred in Kaduna
State with over 170 homes including churches razed or destroyed. In the
coordinated anti Christian attacks in the State launched by Government
backed radical Fulani Islamists, resulting in 120 Christian deaths, over
140 homes including churches were razed and in the 16th March 2019
attacks in Nandu-Gbok, a Christian village in Sanga LGA of the State, 10
persons mostly women and children were killed with over 30 homes
including churches razed. In all these, the State Government and
security forces looked the other way and did nothing except issuing
“condemnation statements” or trivialising the killings as
“herders-farmers clashes”. By the graphic account of the Adara
Development Association, given through its Assistant National Secretary,
Barr Luke Waziri, “first, Ungwan Barde was attacked on February 10,
2019, and nobody said anything even though those in government knew.
Furthermore, the government pretended that the 11 people killed didn’t
matter. Then Karamai, another of our community was attacked on 26
February with 38 people killed. While the victims were buried in a mass
grave and the injured yet to recover, Ungwan Barde village was attacked
again on Sunday 10th March. 17 people were killed and dozens of Houses
burnt. The next day, while we were still searching for more dead bodies,
Inkirimi and Dogonnoma villages in Maro were attacked. 52 people were
killed and dozens injured. The smoke had barely settled when an attack
was launched in the evening at Ungwan Gora (Labi Village) with dozens
injured and 43 houses burnt down”. By the account of Governor
Samuel Ortom of Benue State, 15 Christians were killed on 23rd January
2019 in Gwer West, Markudi, Guma and Logo LGAs of the State. According
to him, “three days ago, four people were killed in Gwer West, two
people were killed right here in Makurdi, three killed in Guma and six
people were killed in Logo. The herdsmen also kidnapped people including
livestock guard, adding, “I am yet to get the total figure because the
council chairmen are yet to give me the details”.  (See Punch Newspaper
Jan 2019) Eight Christians were killed by Muslims and 56 others
injured with 36 in life-threatening conditions in Taraba State following
the declaration of the incumbent Governor Darius Ishaku (a Christian)
as the winner of 9th March 2019 Governorship Poll in the State, leading
to widespread attacks against Christian citizens. Dozens of Christians
were feared dead on 3rd March 2019 when Jihadist Fulani herdsmen in
their hundreds attacked Suwa and Burukutu Christian Communities in
Lamurde Local Government Area of Adamawa State. The attackers have laid
siege on the communities between 4am and 8am in the morning with no
security personnel on sight leading to killing of dozens and razing down
of homes in their dozens. Similar attacks were earlier on 21st
Jan 2019 launched in Bare Community in Numan LGA of same Adamawa State,
killing a rural Christian woman and burning down a Catholic Seminary and
other homes. The slain Christian Woman was decapitated with machetes by
the Jihadist Fulani attackers leading to her death. A total of 20
Christians were also attacked and killed in two separate attacks that
occurred on 30th and 31st December 2018 in communities including Nding
Sesut located in Barkin Ladi Local Government Area of Plateau State.
These are just to mention but few. In other words, over 200 Christian
lives have been lost in less than three months of 2019. The
import of this statement, therefore, is to alert Nigerian Christians,
international democracies and human rights bodies over these impending
dooms. Unless the two named figures: President Muhammadu Buhari and
Governor Nasiru el-Rufai of Kaduna State are ousted judicially via
electoral courts, otherwise, their administrations will further and
unquenchably be enveloped by jihadist attacks against Nigerian Christian
population in part or in whole till 1st June 2023. Other than
being ousted judicially as a key available option, the international or
western democracies and rights bodies can step up sustained pressures on
them to sit up and do the needful including sacking the present Chief
of Army Staff and reorganising the armed forces particularly the army
and police along secular lines; if not, Christians in Nigeria should
prepare more graveyards years ahead or in coming years for thousands of
their fateful who will be killed. The western democracies’ visa
ban and other sanctionable policies against sponsors of election
violence in Nigeria should be extended to public office holders
including elected officers and military chiefs and their Governments
found aiding and condoning the jihadist Fulani Herdsmen attacks against
Northern and Southern Nigerian Christians, their homes, lands and sacred
places of worship. Finally, our timely warning and alert are in
conformity with our pacifist disposition and strong opposition to all
forms of radical religiosity including Islamic radicalism and reprisal
radicalisation. It has always been our position that all Muslims
including Muslim political actors and non state actors must accept and
allow rooms for religious and ethnic harmony, tolerance and co-existence
in Nigeria or any part thereof and whereby they think otherwise, all
the ethnic nationalities in the country must be seated together and
peacefully for purpose of resolving on how best to go their separate
ways or form compatible or agreeable confederation of loose
nationalities. Signed •Emeka Umeagbalasi, Chair; •Obianuju Igboeli, Esq., Head, Civil Liberties;  •Chidinma Udegbunam, Esq., Head, Campaigns