Abuja – Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo and Busola Dakolo have been ordered to appear before an Abuja court within 14 days. The Federal High Court, sitting in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja has summoned founder of Commonwealth of Zion Assembly, Biodun Fatoyinbo and Mrs Busola Dakolo to appear before it within 14 days. A report by TheCable revealed this on Monday. Busola Dakolo, a photographer and wife of the musician, Timi Dakolo, had in June accused the founder of Commonwealth of Zion Assembly, Pastor Abiodun Fatoyinbo of rape. Mrs Dakolo made the claims during an interview with Y!Naija. In a suit, she filed at a High Court of the Federal Capital Territory in Abuja, Mrs Dakolo claimed that the alleged action of Fatoyinbo adversely affected her marital s-x life. She, therefore, demanded “a personal letter of apology” from the cleric to show honest remorse for his misdeeds. In her suit, which was filed on her behalf by her lawyer, Pelumi Olajengbesi and Co of Law corridor, Mrs Dakolo asked the court to declare that Fatoyinbo’s denial of his alleged acts contained jointly and/or severally through a press statement he released on June 28 2019, had caused her continuous emotional distress and amounted to intentional infliction of emotional distress on her. Olajengbesi said, “The claimant avers that she was immediately terrified and in shock while the defendant pinned her down on the couch following which he caressed her body, fondled her breasts, pulled her pant, quickly half-pulled his trousers and ordered her to allow him have his way with her. “The claimant avers that the defendant in the process used his hand to cover her mouth, thereby muffling her screams. The claimant avers that the defendant made efforts to penetrate her vagina, whilst she struggled to fight him off; however, the defendant overpowered her and penetrated her vagina and had sexual intercourse with her. “The claimant avers that while she was in shock of the incident which had rendered her befuddled and mortified, the defendant rushed out of the living room area of her family home and briefly returned with a bottle of soda (Krest) which he forced down her throat thereby making her breathing difficult.” Source