By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The People’s Democratic Party, (PDP) has tasked President Muhammadu Buhari  to use the opportunity  provided by the  United Nation General Assembly (UNGA)  to address world leaders on the reports by the European Union (EU), African Union (AU) and other international bodies, detailing heavy manipulations and outright rigging of the 2019 general elections to favour him and his party. The party which belated Buhari for attending such an important meeting of world leaders and policy makers without a clear-cut national agenda, said that it goes to  show that Buhari Presidency is not committed to our nation but only going out for another showboating on the international platform. The PDP disclosed this on Sunday in a statement signed by
the national Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan sent to Sundiata Post. The statement reads: The Peoples
Democratic Party (PDP) laments that President Muhammadu Buhari is going to the
United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) without articulating any definite
objectives, plans and proposals to attract tangible benefits to the nation. The party says attending such an important meeting of world
leaders and policy makers without a clear-cut national agenda shows that the
Buhari Presidency is not committed to our nation but only going out for another
showboating on the international platform. Is it not lamentable that while other leaders are heading to
the meeting with well-articulated national proposals that will boost their
nations’ competitiveness on international engagements, the Buhari Presidency is
going empty with zero capacity to engage; a clear signal that it will equally
return empty? The sad effect of such leadership failure is worsened by the
acceptability issues trailing the rigging of the February Presidential
election, for which the Buhari Presidency is largely lacking in confidence and
poise to vigorously engage other world leaders on issues. In over four years of this administration, the Buhari
Presidency has not been able to harness opportunities presented by such
important events despite huge resources deployed for attendance. The PDP painfully recalls how, earlier this month, President
Buhari returned empty from the 7th Tokyo International Conference on African
Development (TICAD7), at the same time his Ghanaian counterpart, Nana
Akufo-Ado, sealed a deal with automobile giant, Toyota, to establish a Toyota
and Suzuki manufacturing plant in Ghana. Nevertheless, since Mr. President is appearing before the
UNGA, the PDP tasks him to use the opportunity to address world leaders on the
reports by the European Union (EU), African Union (AU) and other international
bodies, detailing heavy manipulations and outright rigging of the 2019 general
elections to favour him and his party. Our party also urges Mr. President to address the world on
reported issues of violations of human rights, disregard to the rule of law and
constitutional order, disobedience to court orders, arbitrary arrest and detention
of citizens, extrajudicial killings, impunity and swelling corruption under his
watch. The PDP also insists that President Buhari should address
the world on the UN Rapporteur’s report as well as issues of violent division,
escalated banditry, bloodletting and general insecurity in our dear nation under
his woeful administration. In the same vein, the PDP demands that Mr. President
addresses the world on how his administration wrecked our once robust economy
from a prosperous nation to the world poverty capital in a space of four years. The PDP states that these are facts known to all and for
which the world is demanding answers from the Buhari Presidency. Our party also urges Mr. President to assert the confidence
and courage required to demand for help from other world leaders. Signed: Kola Ologbondiyan National Publicity Secretary