By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Abuja Metropolitan Lions club,
(AMLC) at the weekend unveiled, Lion Monique Welson as the 10th President of
the Abuja Metropolitan Lions Club (AMLC). This is coming as the club is celebrating
its 2019/2020 Lions’ year and 10 year anniversary as a great and award winning
club under the International Association of Lions Clubs District 404-A2 Nigeria. Lion Monique took over from Lion Inima Jimmy who was the
immediate Past President of the Club for 2018/2019. The colorful ceremony which held on Saturday at Top Rank
Hotel Utako, Abuja, had past and present leaders as well as members of Lions
Club International in attendance. In her acceptance speech after her installation, the President, Lion Monique who sounded emotional about the condition of some students in the Abuja school of the blind, said that most of those students would not have been in that school today if they had access to just thirty thousand naira (N30,000)  to attend to their eye issues before it degenerated. She therefore appealed to the club members to give sacrificially
to lessen the burden of the less privileged in our society reminding them of
the saying of Mothere Theresa of the blessed memory thus: “Intense Love Does
not measure, it just gives” she added. President of the Abuja Metroploitan Lions Club, Lion
Monnique Welson performed her first duty of inducting the immediate past
president (IPP) into her board . She also performed the induction of the seven
brand new members after their presentation to her as new members. Lion kayode Erinoso in his welcome address, informed that
for the past ten years the club has carried out several projects and activities
to serve and better humanity. He said that the club has restored the sight of
people through special interventions program,; provided help to the needy with
relief materials, combating malnutrition, provision of borehole to communities
within FCT, support to the leprosy community, assistance to FCTschool of the
blind, youth empowerment programme, vocation and enterprise development
program, strategic empowerment  amongst
other numerous humanitarian services. Earlier in in her 
valedictory speech, the out-going President, Lion Inima Jimmy expressed
gratitude to od for the laudable achievenment the club recorded in service year
under her watch, saying that such feat would not have bben possible without the
goodwill and intelligent contributions of her fellow members. She stressed the club held all her meetings promptly as well
as represented in al  Lions’ activities
within the district, national and International office. According to to the out-going President, the club carried out
services such as : donation of white cane to students of FCT school of the
blind, eye screening and presentation of free eye glasses in piwoyi community,
diabetes screening and awareness talk, trained youth of Piwoyi community on
soap making, Vaseline and izal production, slippers and bag making  as well as donation of cash and clothings,
cosmetics and complete baby sets to children born at Gwarimpa General Hospital
on 1st January 2019. She reminded that Abuja Metroploitan Club
earned Nigeria Lions Charity Foundation (NLCF) patch from District 404-A2. In attendance to add colour to the occasion, were the
students of Abuja School of the blind who entertained the guests with Christian
songs. The highlights of the event was the