Lagos – A woman has lost her marriage of 35 years after the mistake of sleeping with her husband’s younger brother. A 52-year-old trader, Mrs. Kudirat Ajayi, has finally lost her 35-year old marriage for allegedly sleeping with her husband’s younger brother despite the fact that she still wanted the union, which produced many adult children. The dissolution was made by the Igando Customary Court in Lagos, which granted the request of her estranged husband to dissolve the union. The President of the Court, Mr. Adeniyi Koledoye, said that since the petitioner insisted on divorce after several interventions, the Court was left with no option other than to grant his wish and pronounced the union dissolved. In his judgment, Koledoye said, “I hereby pronounce the marriage between Mr. Akande Ajayi and Mrs. Kudirat Ajayi, dissolved; both of you henceforth cease to be husband and wife”. “Each of you should go on his or her separate ways unmolested, the Court wishes both of you well in your future endeavours.” He however, ordered the petitioner to pay N150,000 severance to Mrs. Kudirat for her to move on with her life. The petitioner, Akande, had earlier informed the Court that his wife was wayward and adulterous. “When I married her, I rented an apartment for her because I had other wives and I didn’t want them to live together. I started hearing from people in the area that my wife was having an affair with a man. Initially, I ignored it until her lover came claiming paternity of one of our children.“The man eventually came to the house but I refused to open the door for him. When I questioned my wife, she confessed that the man slept with her but it did not result in pregnancy” The 71-year-old businessman also said that his wife was fetish. “I once caught her burying something in my compound. I accosted her and tried to remove what she buried there but I could not. I went out before I returned, she had cemented the place” he said. The petitioner begged the Court to end the marriage as he was no longer interested; that the love he once had for his wife had faded. In her response, the mother of four, Mrs. Kudirat, said that she slept with her brother-in-law because she mistook him for her husband. “I was in bed at night when my husband’s younger brother came to the house my husband had rented for me. I thought it was my husband, who normally comes to the house at that particular time between 9pm and 10pm to play and make love to me.“It was after he finished making love to me that I realized that he was not my husband. When I queried him, he claimed that my husband had travelled that was why he came to have sex with me. I reported the case to my brother’s wife, who advised me not to tell my husband so that peace can reign in the family,” she said. Mrs. Kudirat said that her husband treats the children of the other wives better than hers. She also denied being fetish as claimed by the husband. She asked the Court not to grant her husband’s wish for the dissolution of their marriage; that she still loved him. Source