By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Ahead of the commencement of the nation-wide military operation announced by the military, Int’l Society for Civil Liberties & Rule of Law (Intersociety) has tasked the elected public officials comprising of eleven (11) governors, two hundred and eighty five (285) elected members of the Houses of Assembly, thirty three (33) elected senators and ninety eight (98) elected members of House of Representatives to take up the lopsided appointment in the security sector with President Muhammadu Buhari as soon as he returns from the 2019 United Nation General Assembly and to insist on regional inputs in the appointment and posting of top military and policing officers manning key military and policing formations in the two regions. Intersociety said that the call is against the backdrop that the Nigerian Army has earned notoriety in using such operations to execute ethnic agenda, which usually leads to massacre of targeted unarmed and defenseless citizens of particular ethno-religious nationality. The group informed that it had written to the affected
elected public office holders for purpose of conveying this strong message in an
8-page letter with 6-page graphic tables dated 26/09/2019 but dispatched
25/09/2019 and signed by Obianuju Igboeli, Ndidiamaka Bernard, Chidimma
Udegbunam and Chinwe Umeche (principal officers) and Emeka Umeagbalasi. The statement sent to
Sundiata Post by the group reads in full: The Int’l Society for Civil Liberties & Rule of Law is
calling on the Eleven Govs of Eastern Nigeria, 285 elected members of the
Eastern Houses of Assembly, 33 elected Senators and 98 elected members of House
of Reps from the two regions to rise to their constitutional rights, powers and
duties by effectively challenging the raging gross lopsidedness in the control
and command of top military and policing formations in Eastern Nigeria. It is tearful and shocking, for instance, that out of 26 top
military officers recently found to be manning key military formations in the
Southeast, none of them is from the Region. This is nothing short of a serious
security threat to the People of the Southeast including their boundaries,
properties and environment; especially in a country where ethnicity, religion
and greed have been elevated as national policy direction and inculcated into
the country’s milito-policing culture and operations. The Eastern Nigeria’s elected public office holders must
therefore specifically insist on regional inputs in the appointment and posting
of top military and policing officers manning key military and policing
formations in the two regions. We call on them to further take the matter up
with Mr. President upon his return from the 2019 UNGA as well as proactively
engage the authorities of Defense Headquarters, Army, Navy, Air Force, SSS and
NPF. Intersociety had written the named elected public office
holders for purpose of conveying this strong message. The 8-page letter and its
6-page graphic tables was dated this date (26/09/2019) but dispatched yesterday
(25/09/2019) and signed by Lawyers Obianuju Igboeli, Ndidiamaka Bernard,
Chidimma Udegbunam and Chinwe Umeche (principal officers) and Emeka Umeagbalasi
(a Criminologist & Graduate of Security Studies). The special letter was
directly sent to the eleven Eastern Govs. The 285 elected members of the
Eastern Houses of Assembly would get theirs through their Hon Speakers. Other recipients
included the 33 elected Senators and the 98 elected members of House of Rep
from the two regions through their Minority and Caucus leaders; totaling 427. It was also brought to the attention of the five Govs of the
Southeast, 129 elected members of the Southeast Houses of Assembly as well as
15 elected Senators and 43 elected members of the House of Reps from the Region
that the authorities of the Police Service Commission and the Nigeria Police
Force have refused and failed to immediately fill the Southeast vacancy in the
Nigeria Police Management Team by way of elevation of an Igbo senior police
officer to the rank of DIG. The vacancy has deliberately been allowed to linger
since 12thAugust 2019 or past 44 days. The reverse must therefore be ensured by
the named elected public officers of the Southeast. This must be done as a
matter of uttermost immediacy and inexcusability. The elected leaders of the Southeast must also prevail on
the authorities of the PSC and NPF to ensure sectional balancing at all times
in the appointment or promotion of Police AIGs, CPs, DCPs and ACPs, etc and be
particularly compelled to ensure that out of 26 serving AIGs in the country,
Southeast gets at least four; fifteen out of 95 serving CPs, six out of 36
State CPs and two out of 12 Zonal AIGs. The Southeast must further be made a
meritorious and substantive member of the Nigerian Defense and Security Councils,
denied since June 2015. The continued domination, command and control of top
military and policing formations in Eastern Nigeria by officers of Hausa-Fulani
and Yoruba nationalities and their Islamic faith and total shutting out from
the regional security arrangement or skeletal involvement of officers of the
Southeast and the South-south must no longer be tolerated or accepted. As a
matter of fact, security in the midst of official insecurity such as the
referenced is an act of impossibility and a wild goose chase. This is more so when it has conservatively been found that
not less than N250b or $850m had been spent by the eleven Eastern Nigerian
States through their “Governors’ monthly security votes” in the past four years
(August 2015-August/Sept 2019) in aid of key military and policing formations
and their operations in Eastern Nigeria, yet the two regions are shut out or
skeletally involved when it comes to appointment and posting of senior military
and policing officers manning such formations. The lopsided compositions are
also found to have fueled corrupt practices and gross rights abuses by the ethno-religiously
lopsided stationed security personnel in the two regions. These include racial
profiling, extra judicial killings, unlawful arrests, long detentions without
trial, torture and enforced disappearances, etc. It is particularly a clear act of impossibility and a wild
goose chase for security arrangements to be said to have been made or put in
place in Eastern Nigeria (South-south and Southeast) by Govs and other public
office holders when top military and policing formations in the two regions are
manned by top officers of Northern and Southwest (Yoruba) Muslims and few
non-Muslim others; with senior officers of the Eastern Region totally shut out
or skeletally represented. Considering the multi religious and ethnic composition of
Nigeria or ethno-religious multiplicity of the country recognized in the 1999
Constitution, it remains our unequivocal position that top public offices in
Nigeria including top political, military, policing and justice positions must
be allocated to their statutory occupants in full reflection of the country’s
multi ethno-religious composition as firmly recognized in Section 14 (3) of the
1999 Constitution. Such plum offices must not be sectionalized or
ethno-religiously dominated, but allocated in accordance with the principle of
geopolitical or regional fairness and balancing. The special letter to the 427 elected public office holders
of Eastern Nigeria is coinciding with announcement yesterday, 25th Sept 2019 by
the authorities of the Nigerian Army of their readiness for another round of
code named military operations including “Operation Python Dance IV” for
Southeast and “Operation Crocodile Smile” for South-south. The two regions are
jointly called ‘Old Eastern Nigeria’. 
The Nigerian Army says ‘the military operations will kick start
simultaneously across the country on 7th Oct and end on 24th Dec 2019’. The Nigerian Army has earned notoriety in using such
operations to execute ethnic agenda, which usually leads to massacre of
targeted unarmed and defenseless citizens of particular ethno-religious
nationality. In Sept 2017, for instance, the Nigerian Army carried a well co-ordinated
massacre operation in Abia State under the guise of “Operation Python Dance
11”, targeting members of the Indigenous People of Biafra and other general
population and in the end, no fewer than 180 were killed and over 130 others
maimed. The Army did not lose a single soul on its part nor bring the
perpetrators to book till date. The Nigerian Army and other branches of the Armed Forces and
Police, with intelligence supplied by the SSS, had earlier between 30th August
2015 and 20th Jan 2017, engaged in series of killings and maiming, targeting
unarmed and defenseless street protesters and other members of the Southeast
and South-south populations; leading to death of no fewer than 300 and maiming
of over 370. The killings and maiming were perpetrated under the guise of
‘’internal Security Operations”. Again, no soldier was killed and no
perpetrators were brought to book till date. In all these, like Senate President (Dr. Ahmed Lawan) said
recently, “the Nigerian security architecture or arrangement (including
militarization of political and civil spaces) has failed to secure the citizens
or not achieved the desired result of providing the needed security to the
citizens”. Instead, criminals and their entities are being protected and the
innocent massacred in droves by the country’s security forces particularly the
Nigerian Army. In other words, soldiers, police and guns are everywhere in
Nigeria, yet no security. Consequences of these sectionalized or lopsided
compositions: Apart from constituting serious security threats to the safety
and security of the Peoples of Eastern Nigeria or Southeast and South-south
Regions and protection of their properties, lands and boundaries, there are
also widespread feelings among their populations that the current Armed Forces
and Policing agencies are far from being secular. In other words, they now
operate as ‘Islamic security forces of Nigeria’. One pattern and trend found in the course of our recent
field research or investigation is conversion of most, if not all military
checkpoints in the two regions into mobile mosques or Muslim praying grounds.
One of such cases was recorded on Tuesday, 17th Sept 2019 at the Nigerian Naval
Checkpoint located at Atani-Ogwuikpere Federal Road/Uga Street Junction at the
road boundary of the Ogbaru and the Onitsha South Local Government Areas of
Anambra State. The account which took place at about 1.40pm saw
Hausa-Fulani Muslim young men numbering about 20, converting the open space
into a Muslim praying ground by the side of the said Nigerian Navy checkpoint.
This is even when their Mosque is located about 300 meters away at the Kala
Hausa Settlement along same Atani-Ogwuikpere Road. Our further checks disclosed
that this has become a daily routine done every afternoon in most, if not all
military checkpoints in the Southeast and the South-south Regions or Eastern
Nigeria. The despicable practice is also deliberately done and
replicated to create a general psychological belief of the Nigerian Armed
Forces belonging to Muslims or Hausa-Fulani and Muslim segment of the Southwest
(Yoruba) Ethnic Nationalities alone. This is done in addition to preferential
treatment of civilian members of the Fulani Muslims including allowing and
maintaining their settlements around or near military checkpoints, etc. Exposing Grossly Sectionalized Headship Of Military &
Policing Formations In Eastern Nigeria. The following are the analyses of the eight tables
containing names and ethno-religious identities of those presently manning top
military and policing formations in Eastern Nigeria (Southeast and
South-south). Also revisited and captured in the eight tables: tables 3(a) and
3(b), are names and ethno-religious identities of those occupying 22 top
defense (military), security, policing, paramilitary and justice positions or
establishments in Nigeria. The field research was conducted in August 2019 and
completed on 22nd Sept 2019. It must be reminded too that between August 2015 and
August/Sept 2019 (past four years), the 82 Division of the Nigerian Army in
Enugu had had five GOCs (three Northern Muslims, a Southwest Muslim and a
Northern Christian); namely: Major Gen Ibrahim Attahiru (Northern Muslim: 29th
July 2015-April 2017), Major Gen Adamu Baba Ibrahim (Northern Muslim: April
2017- August 2018), Major Gen Emmanuel Kabuk (Northern Christian: August 18,  2018-18thDec 2018), Major Gen Abubakar
Maikobi (Northern Muslim: Dec 18, 2018- 11thSept 2019) and Brig Gen Lasisis
Adegboye (Southwest Muslim: Acting GOC since 11thSept 2019). The present Acting GOC (Brig Gen Adegboye) was the Garrison
Commander of the 82 Division from Jan 2017 to Jan 2019. As a Garrison
Commander, Brig Gen Lasisi Adegboye was involved in the massacre of no fewer
than 180 defenseless and unarmed Igbo citizens and maiming of over 130 others
during the Sept 2017 Army Python Dance 11 in Abia State. Table 1 (a) Sectionalized Headship of Top Military Formations
in Southeast (Igbo Land) There are 26 top military (Army, Navy and Air Force)
positions identified. By religion and tribe, 18 of the 26 are Muslims involving
16 Northern Muslims and two Southwest Muslims; while eight are Christians
involving four Southwest (Yoruba) Christians, three Northern Christians, one
South-south Christian and zero Southeast Christian. In other words, out of 26
top military officers manning strategic military formations in Southeast Nigeria
or Igbo Land, no Igbo top military officer is among them. This is not only
totally rejected, but also a clear case of creation of official insecurity and
a serious security threat to the People of the Region and safety of their
ancestral environment. For graphic details, see Table 1 (a) as attached. Table 1 (b): Sectionalized Headship of Top State and Zonal
Police Commands in Southeast (Igbo Land) Out of six top police commands in the Region involving five
State Commissioners of Police and the AIG in charge of Zone 9 at Umuahia, four
are Muslims involving three Northern Muslims and one Southwest (Yoruba) Muslim,
while the remaining two are South-south Christians. In other words, out of the
six, no Igbo CP or senior police officer is among them. In the list preceding
the current one, it was 95% Northern Muslim dominated.  The positions of DCPs and ACPs in charge of
Operations, Investigations and Area Commands as well as MOPOL, SARS, Anti Cult,
Anti Bunkering, Anti Terrorism and Divisional Police Commanders, etc in the
Region are also Northern Muslim dominated. This is totally rejected. For
graphic details, see Table 1 (b) as attached. Table 1 (c): Sectionalized Headship of State Directorates of
SSS in Southeast (Igbo Land) Out of the five State Directors of SSS in the Region, three
are Muslims involving two Northern Muslims and one Southwest (Yoruba) Muslim.
The remaining one (Enugu State Director of SSS) is a Southwest Christian.
Again, none of the five State SSS Directors in the Region is from Southeast or
Igbo Land. This is totally rejected. For graphic details, see Table 1 (c) as
attached. Table 2 (a): Sectionalized Headship of Top Military Formations
in South-south (Niger Delta) There are 22 top military (Army, Navy and Air Force)
positions identified. By religion and tribe, 14 of the 22 are Muslims involving
11 Northern Muslims and three Southwest (Yoruba) Muslims; while the remaining
eight are Christians involving four Southwest (Yoruba) Christians, one Northern
Christian, two South-south Christians and one Southeast Christian. In other
words, out of the 22 top military officers manning strategic military
formations in South-south Nigeria, only two are from the Region. This is not
only totally rejected, but also a clear case of creation of official insecurity
and a serious security threat to the People of the Niger Delta and safety of
their ancestral environment. For graphic details, see Table 2 (a) as attached. Table 2 (b): Sectionalized Headship of Top State and Zonal
Police Commands in South-south (Niger Delta). Out of the eight top police commands in the Region involving
six State Commissioners of Police and two AIGs in charge of Zone 5 (Benin) and
Zone 6 (Calabar), five are Muslims involving three Northwest, one Northeast and
one Southwest (Yoruba) Muslims, while the remaining three are Christians
involving one Northeast, one South-south and one Southeast Christians. In other
words, out of the eight, only one is from South-south or Niger Delta. The list preceding the current one was also Northern Muslim
dominated. Similarly, the positions of DCPs and ACPs in charge of Operations,
Investigations and Area Commands as well as MOPOL, SARS, Anti Cult, Anti
Bunkering and Anti Terrorism (i.e. Operation Delta Safe) and Divisional Police
Commanders, etc in the Region are Northern Muslim dominated. This is also
totally rejected.  For graphic details,
see Table 2 (b) as attached. Table 2 (c): Sectionalized Headship of State Directorates of
SSS in South-south (Niger Delta) Out of the six State Directors of SSS in the Region, there
are four Muslims involving three Northern Muslims and one Southwest (Yoruba)
Muslim, while the remaining two are Christians involving one South-south and
one Southeast Christians. In other words, out of the six, only one is from the
South-south or Niger Delta Region. The lopsided arrangement or composition
clearly amounts to canonization of official insecurity intelligence and it is
totally rejected. For graphic details, see Table 2 (c) as attached. Tables 3 (a) and 3 (b): Muslim Occupation of 18 of The 22
National Defense, Policing & Justice Positions Out of the 22 top defense, policing and justice positions at
Nigeria’s Federal level, Muslims are in charge of 18 with only four left for
Christians. While 16 are occupied by Northern Muslims, the Southwest (Yoruba)
Muslims are allocated with two. Two Northern Christians are further in charge
of two paramilitary organizations; namely: Federal Road Safety Corps and
Federal Fire Service while the Southern Christians are left to occupy only two
positions of Chief of Defense Staff and Chief of Naval Staff. The Southwest (Yoruba) Muslims are additionally given two
positions of Chairman of Police Service Commission and Minister of Interior.
Geopolitically or regionally speaking, South-south or Niger Delta is allocated
with only one post (Chief of Naval Staff) out of the 22 and in the whole;
Southeast or Igbo Nation is allocated with nothing. As it stands, Igbo Nation
is not a member of the National Defense Council and it is presently serving in
observer capacity in the National Security Council. This is by virtue of
ministerial appointment of Mr. Geoffrey Onyeama as Minister of Foreign Affairs.
This is also totally rejected. For graphic details, see Tables 3 (a) and 3 (b)
as attached. Other key positions presently and dominantly held by
Northern Muslims in a country of six geopolitical zonal arrangements, three
major tribes, ten relatively populous ethnic nationalities and over 370 tribes
in all; with Christian and Muslim populations of roughly 50-50% are the
Ministers of Finance, Petroleum and Aviation; the Group Managing Director of
NNPC, Chairmen of Code of Conduct Bureau and Code of Conduct Tribunal; Director
of Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) and Chairmen of Independent
National Electoral Commission and National Population Commission as well as
DG/CEO of National Identity. The rest are the positions of the Chief Justice of
Nigeria, President of the Court of Appeal and Chief Judge of the Federal
Capital Territory, President of the Senate, etc. Uploading Of Graphic Tables & Concluding Part The graphic tables, numbering eight, shall be uploaded in
coming days with the concluding part of the special letter as well as
electronic link to the letter. Two Photos attached below were taken yesterday
afternoon (25/09/2019) at the Uga Junction/Atani Road Junction Naval Checkpoint
showing some Hausa-Fulani Muslims being allowed to convert the arena of the
Checkpoint into a Muslim praying ground.