By Olukayode Babalola Lafia – The National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) says it is strengthening partnership with traditional institutions in Nasarawa State to boost enrollment. Mr Shuaib Ajanaku, Coordinator of NIMC in Nasarawa told News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lafia on Wednesday that enrollment into the national database in the state needed to be improved upon. Ajanaku said there was need to strengthen partnership with traditional institutions so as to effectively pass the message of the importance of enrollment to people in the state. He said that NIMC was also seeking collaboration with community and religious leaders to drive home the importance of enrollment to residents in the state. “Enrollment in the state has been a bit challenging if you compare the state with other states, especially states within the north central zone. “Although we are making progress, it is at a slow pace. Nevertheless, we will continue to do our best to see that everyone is enrolled. “We have paid advocacy visits to traditional rulers and other community leaders to appeal to them to help speak to their people to get enrolled. “We believe they have a strong influence on the people. So, we want to strengthen our partnership with them to get more enrollment in the state,” he said Ajanaku said compared to 2018, more enrollment had been achieved in 2019, but this could still be improved upon. He said that to boost the number of enrollees in the state, the commission had sensitised the residents to the importance of being enrolled and having the National Identity Number (NIN). The coordinator expressed the hope that more people would embrace the exercise. “We are working hard to sensitise the people. We have been on the radio and the television to sensitise the people to let them know the importance of this project. “If you want to obtain or renew a driver’s licence, to obtain international passport or renew it, you must have NIN. “To open accounts, you must have your NIN. A lot of other transactions are being affected like people going on pilgrimage must have NIN. So it has become imperative for every Nigerian to have a NIN,” he said. Ajanaku appealed for stronger support from the Nasarawa State government in helping the commission to enroll all residents of the state.