By Mohammad Tijjani Kaduna – The Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar has implored Nigerian Air Force (NAF) personnel to maintain good civil-military relations in order not to put the Service in disrepute. Abubakar made the call during the inauguration of renovated 4 blocks of one-bedroom flat at the second officers transit quarters at NAF base on Saturday in Kaduna. “I implore all of you to maintain good civil-military relations in order not to put the Service in disrepute,“he said. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Air Chief was represented by Air Officer Commanding, (AOC), Air Training Command Kaduna , AVM Muhammad Sulaiman . Abubakar said the renovation of the quarters were in fulfilment of his earlier promise to build new residential houses and renovate existing ones  for personal, to enhance their professional competence. He also said that providing new infrastructure for personnel was a goal set by the force in the discharge  of its constitutional responsibilities. Abubakar said the NAF had prioritised the provision of good quality living accommodation for married and single personnel. “Let me therefore register my profound gratitude on behalf of officers, airmen, airwomen and civilian staff of the air force and our families and pledge our continued unalloyed loyalty.” He said that the NAF had continued to bombard logistics strong holds of Boko Haram fighters in the North-East and destroying their camps along the fringes of Lake Chad. “The Federal Government is giving full backing to the military operations as appreciable successes have been recorded. Abubakar said the NAF, in collaboration with other security agencies, was contributing its quota in various internal security operations across the country aimed at combating all forms of criminality. “To sustain the tempo of these military operations, there is the need to boost the morale of personnel through such welfare packages to ensure their maximum attention at the front line. “Your welfare and that of your families would remain a top priority on our agenda. “Let me re-assure you that we shall not relent in our efforts to keep adding value to our society. However, you must do all in your power to justify this enormous defence expenditure in the face of dwindling economy. “In particular, you have a responsibility to ensure adequate and sustained maintenance of the various infrastructure in all our barracks. “As a Service, we must strive to meet the expectations of the country at this time of heightened insecurity, by protecting the citizenry and our critical assets. He commended the occupants of the quarters for their patience throughout the renovation and implored them to maintain the tempo. “It is evident that your waiting is not in vain as you will now move into a more befitting accommodation. “I enjoin all of you to always make good use of any facility you are provided with and ensure that you protect it from vandalism,” he said (NAN)