By Joy Odigie, Undoubtedly, one of the major festivals in Nigeria is the National Festival for Arts and Culture (NAFEST), introduced in 1970 after the 30-month old civil war. It was meant to act as vehicle to foster unity, but now being explored to contribute to the nation’s economic development. Besides, NAFEST now serves as platform for mobilising stakeholders in the arts and culture sector to interact, showcase talents and project the values of Nigeria’s heritage as well as develop the spirit of national identity and peaceful coexistence Edo, “The Heartbeat of the Nation” will host the 2019 edition of NAFEST. The event will hold in Benin City, the Edo capital, from Oct. 19 to Oct.26. It is expected that Edo would use the hosting of the festival to boost the ecotourism potential of the state. Edo is known for its rich cultural heritage that dates back to many centuries ago. The history, civilisation and the arts of Benin Kingdom are global brand, while Benin artefacts are among the most exquisite and coveted in the world. The succession to the Benin monarchy that dates back to centuries is among the best and seamless in the world. Speaking at the 49th National Stakeholders Meeting on NAFEST, held recently in Benin, Gov.  Godwin Obaseki, said the state was ready to host a world-class national festival, with robust presence of Benin royalty and culture, never seen anywhere before. The governor who was represented by Commissioner of Arts, Culture, Tourism and Diaspora Affairs, Mr Osaze Osemwegie-Ero, said the state would showcase its huge cultural assets to the world. Obaseki also in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr Crusoe Osagie, said the state was set to boost its tourism potential during the NAFEST. The governor said the state has notable sites and monuments which could be harnessed and explored during the 2019 NAFEST. The sites and monuments in Edo are: The Somorika Hills, which is about 165 kilometres from Benin City. The hills are part of the rolling landscape of the Kukuruku Range, and it is a beautiful scenery to behold. Another place to visit is Igun Street, which has been named the festival hub for the NAFEST. Igun Street is the home of brass and bronze castings in Nigeria, and  listed as a Cultural Heritage Site by UNESCO. Arts lovers who want to see and purchase the best of bronze and brass arts, must visit the Igun Crafts Centre, located at Igun Street, at the heart of Benin City. Meanwhile, a cross section of bronze casters on Igun Street, say they are fully prepared to take advantage of the opportunity of the state hosting the event to make brisk sales. A bronze caster, Samuel Uyi, said most bronze casters are ready to give discounts to encourage tourists visiting the state for the event, to purchase their bronze works. “We have improved our production of bronze which we plan to put on display during the event. “ Some of these works are already on display in most stores here on Igun Street.” The Sakponba Island Resort which is 45 minutes’ drive from Benin is an historical site in the state. The resort was founded in 1897 and it surrounded by historical island, beautiful water body with distinct colour and clarity. Sakponba Island Resort is a new tourist site identified by Edo State Government for viable tourist investment. Other sites to visit in Edo are: Palace of the Oba of Benin, that hosts a gallery of photo exhibitions of looted Benin artefacts, the Benin Moat, Benin National Museum, Emotan Status, Ososo Tourist Centre located at Akoko Edo Local Government Area, which is a hilly and rocky town. The centre has a rest house at the top of Ososo Hill, Ogba Zoological Garden, Okomu Game Reserve, among other places. To add more glamour to the festival,  Oba of Benin, Omo N’Oba N’Edo Uku’ Akpolokpolo Ewuare II, while hosting the Director-General, National Council for Arts and Culture, Otunba Segun Runsewe in his palace recently, announced that he would celebrate his fourth anniversary on the throne during the NAFEST. The Oba said that his desire and intention to celebrate his fourth anniversary, which coincides with NAFEST, would give the national festival a royal touch. Commissioner of Arts, Culture, Tourism and Diaspora Affairs, Osemwegie-Ero after an inspection tour of beautification work around monument and sites in Benin recently, said the local organising committee was working round the clock to ensure hosting of a successful event. He said meetings had been held with security chiefs in the state, to ensure provision of adequate security before, during and after the event. One of the areas visited by the commissioner was the Oba Akenzuwa Cultural Centre, which will serve as the festival village for the event. Renovation works were nearing completion when the commissioner visited. Edo people are eagerly waiting for the commencement of the 2019 edition of NAFEST to showcase and boost the tourism potential of  the state.(NANFeatures)