Abuja (Sundiata Post) – President Muhammadu Buhari will depart Abuja Sunday for New York, United States to participate in the 74th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA74) which opened on Tuesday, September 17. Special Adviser to The President on Media, Femi Adesina who disclosed this in a statement made available to Newsmen said that the President’s participation at this year’s gathering of world leaders is particularly significant as it coincides with Nigeria’s Presidency of UNGA. Recall that on June 4, 2019, Nigeria’s Permanent Representative
to the UN, Prof. Tijjani Muhammad-Bande, was unanimously elected as the President of UNGA74 – an indication of the
country’s high esteem in the global reckoning. This marks the second
time Nigeria would be occupying that prestigious position following late
Maj-Gen. Joseph Nanven Garba’s election during UNGA44 in 1989. The theme for UNGA74
is, “Galvanizing Multilateral Efforts for Poverty Eradication, Quality
Education, Climate Action and Inclusion.” The statement added
that, “The General Debates will kick off on Tuesday, September 24 during which
leaders of delegations will present their National Statements as well as speak
to the theme of the session. “President Buhari is
scheduled as Number Five Speaker on the first day of the debates – another plus
for the country as most world leaders will be listening in the General Assembly
Hall while the global audience watches on live television. “The President is
expected to underscore his administration’s commitment to building on the
achievements of its three-point agenda following the renewal of his electoral
mandate by the majority of Nigerians. He will also reaffirm Nigeria’s position
on salient global issues. “While in New York,
the Nigerian leader and members of his delegation are expected to participate
in the Climate Action Summit with the theme, “A Race We Can Win. A Race We Must
Win,” convened by the UN Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres; the High-Level
meeting organized by the President of UNGA74 on Universal Health Coverage with
the theme, “Moving Together to Build a Healthier World”; UN High-Level
Political Forum on Sustainable Development; High-Level Dialogue on Financial
Development as well as High-Level Meeting to Commemorate and Promote the
International Day for the Total Elimination of Nuclear Weapons. “In addition to the
above high-level meetings, the Nigerian delegation is expected to participate
at the Side-Events organized by the country’s Ministries, Departments, and
Agencies (MDAs). “These include: SDGs
Integration – Bridging the Policy Planning – Budget Gap for the Achievement of
SDGs, organized by the Office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President
on Sustainable Development Goals; Promotion of International Cooperation to Combat
Illicit Financial Flows and Strengthen Good Practices on Assets Recovery and
Return to Foster Sustainable Development, organized by the Office of the
National Coordinator/CEO, African Union Development Agency-New Partnership for
Africa’s Development/African Peer Review Mechanism (AUDA-NEPAD/APRM) in
collaboration with the Economic Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and other
anti-corruption bodies. “It is noteworthy that
seven European and African countries have confirmed their participation at this
event designed to mobilize collective global action against illicit assets and
their recovery and return for developmental projects. “Moreover, the meeting
will further boost the profile of President Buhari as the African Union
anti-corruption champion. “The Federal Ministry
of Water Resources is also organizing a side-event on Sanitation and Hygiene
Campaign for a Clean Nigeria: Sharing Lessons and Key Insights. “This is crucial for
Nigeria as donor nations and organizations are willing to support the country’s
target to end open defecation by 2025. “The Nigerian leader
is also billed to hold bilateral meetings with leaders of other delegations;
chief executive officers of big companies keen to invest in the country; Aliko
Dangote and Bill Gates on sustaining the polio-free campaign as well as issues
on human capital projects and development. “Before returning to
Abuja at the conclusion of his engagements, President Buhari will meet with a
select group of top America-based Nigerian businessmen and potential investors.” “The President will be
accompanied to New York by Governors Abdullahi Sule, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu and
Adegboyega Oyetola of Nasarawa, Kebbi and Osun States respectively; Minister of
Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama; Minister of Environment, Dr Muhammad
Mahmoud; Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed; and
Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire. “Also on the
President’s delegation are: Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster
Management & Social Development, Sa’adiya Farouk; Minister of Water
Resources, Engr. Suleiman Adamu; Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu;
National Security Adviser, Maj-Gen. Babagana Monguno (retd); Director-General,
National Intelligence Agency, Amb. Ahmed Rufai Abubakar; National Coordinator/CEO,
NEPAD, Princess Gloria Akobundu; and Senior Special Assistant to the President
on SDGs, Mrs Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire