Nigeria in Crisis There is a crisis in Nigeria. The Nigerian State has never been at peace with itself and recent events amplify this pending emergency. And, as has been the case since independence from Britain in 1960, Biafrans are the easy target of the lack of a credible Nigerian state. Nigeria governs without the consent of all within its borders. Nigeria claims to be ruled by law, but in effect, there is a de facto lawlessness in Nigeria. Nigeria’s epidemic of
violence flowing from the North is well documented. In 2014 the Global
Terrorism Index judged Fulani militants to be the fourth most deadly terror
group in the world, behind Boko Haram, Isis, and the Taliban. Lawlessness is always
one step ahead of the Government. In response, the Government, when it is
convenient for it to do so, attempts to give a veneer of legality to the
lawlessness. Recent proposed land reforms across Nigeria do just that. The
Fulani herders from the North are increasingly encroaching on the settled
farmers of the South/South East. This includes Biafra. As Amnesty International
has reported, there were more than 2,000 deaths in 2018 linked to this land
crisis. Instead of seeking to address the violence, the Government has sought
to condone it and legitimise the land grab. There is an underlying
problem in the North which has to do with climate change and encroaching desertification
due to overgrazing and deforestation. This has drawn Fulani herdsmen further
south and led to violence against Biafran farmers seeking to defend their land
and crops. The fertile farming lands of Biafra are very attractive to the
Fulani. To address this land
crisis, the Government, the President of which is Fulani, sought to establish
the RUGA scheme (an acronym for Rural Grazing Area – or is it, as some suggest,
a Fulani word?) whereby Fulani herders could officially move into areas and absorb
land as part of a Government co-ordinated programme across Nigeria. Is this an attempt to
develop settled land practices for the Fulani, or, as is the experience of
Biafrans, is the drive behind RUGA an attempt to Fulanise (or Islamise)
Biafraland and force out Biafrans? Biafrans who stand up to the Fulani are
killed. Because of the uproar across Nigeria, the RUGA settlement programme has
been suspended, but the National Livestock Transformation Plan (NLTP) remains
in place. This programme advocates ranching. How different is it from RUGA? For
Biafrans the effect is the same. They are forced from their land and will be
killed if they do not make way for the Fulani. Nigeria: The Problem, Not the Solution
Nigeria has always been a fiction. The state we now know as Nigeria was created
for British administrative and colonial convenience in 1914. An audacious move
by the British, but no surprises in Empire. Britain’s Nigeria drew together
disparate people into one entity. To oversimplify, to
the North are the Muslims. Two ethnic groups dominate the North, the Hausa and Fulani.
The Fulani are now in the ascendency. One hundred years ago these were
semi-nomadic, pastoral people. Many Fulani continues to live as herders. The
South is mainly Christian and in the South East there is also a vibrant Jewish
tradition. The rural communities in the South/South East tend to be settled,
farmers. The principal ethnic group in the South is the Yoruba. The South East is the
region that makes up Biafraland or Biafra. There is a coherence to Biafra. Its
western border is the River Niger and it incorporates most of the Niger delta.
The eastern border is Cameroon. To the west, across the Niger, are the Yoruba.
In the north are the Muslim people. Despite colonisation and being forcibly
absorbed into Nigeria, Biafrans are defined by common values and a shared sense
of identity. Biafrans don’t all speak the same language. Many Biafrans are Igbo
speakers. Other Biafrans speak Urhobo-Isoko, Ijaw-Epie-Ogbia, Ogoni, Efik,
Annang, Eket-, Oron-Ibibio, Ogoja, Ejagham, Igala, Idoma, Ibani, and Igbanke
among others. To put Biafra in its
Nigerian geo-political context, Biafraland is made up of the following
Provinces: Rivers Province, Cross
River, Akwa Ibom, Ebonyi, Imo, Anambra, Abia, Enugu, Bayelsa and Delta. Fulani
herdsmen have shown great interest in those provinces that form the central
belt of Biafra, such as Enugu. The Biafran War (1967-1970)
With independence, the persecution of Biafrans started. One colonial master was
replaced by another, although, and without endorsing British rule, Biafrans
fared better under the British than they have under Nigerian dominance. First, the Biafrans
who had been transplanted to the North by the British were massacred. Those
that survived fled back to Biafra. The oppression and intimidation did not
cease. In 1967, Biafra was left with no choice but to proclaim independence.
Nigeria declared war. Biafra didn’t stand a
chance. The conflict turned the Cold War on its head. The Soviet Union and
Britain actively supported Nigeria. “Biafra, Britain’s Shame” was how many
described the UK position. French compassion was gratefully received but it
could do little to protect the fledgling state. America’s neutrality in effect
backed Nigeria. China was silent. The UN was hopeless. Biafra was doomed.
Starved into submission, after three years the Biafrans surrendered. At least 2
million Biafrans perished. The atrocities, war
crimes and crimes against humanity committed against Biafra during the Biafran
War remain unaccounted for. Was it an attempt at genocide? Biafrans were
considered an existential threat to the state. The killings were
indiscriminate. All Biafrans were targeted. Biafra Subjugated
After the war, Biafrans slowly rebuilt their world. But, as far as Nigeria was
concerned, they were not and never had been Biafrans. They were Nigerians from
the South East or Igbo-speaking Nigerians. The Biafran War was airbrushed out
of the Nigerian consciousness. Biafrans could only whisper about their loss.
Joining the global Biafran diaspora was one option for those who could get out.
Others remained in Biafraland, their Biafran identity amongst themselves,
undiminished. Nigeria continues to
prioritise crushing assertions of Biafran identity. Even peacefully
commemorating the War risks arrest, detention, prohibited ill-treatment or
being shot. In recent years the Nigerian state authorities have conducted three orchestrated campaigns against Biafrans. The three Operation Python Dance campaigns have been battles against Biafrans. The first campaign was in 2016, the second in 2017 and the third is ongoing. They are designed to undermine calls for Biafran self-determination. Operation Python Dance campaigns intimidate. Serious and systemic human rights violations are carried out by state forces with impunity. A Voice for Biafrans: The Indigenous People of
Biafra The Indigenous People
of Biafra (IPOB) is the main organisation which represents all peoples who
consider themselves to be Biafran. IPOB has one principal purpose, IPOB calls
for the recognition of the Biafran people’s right to self-determination. IPOB
pursues the right to self-determination for Biafrans without the use of force.
IPOB upholds human rights. IPOB rejects violence. The Nigerian
authorities target organisations calling for Biafran self-determination, most
notably IPOB. Being found with IPOB symbols can result in an individual being
disappeared. Arrest is inevitable. And now that IPOB has been proscribed,
prison sentences are harsh. The IPOB leader,
Nnamdi Kanu, has been targeted, harassed and persecuted by the authorities. He
has been unlawfully detained, subjected to prohibited ill-treatment and unfair
trials. It is a miracle that he’s alive. Following an attack on his home, he
was forced into involuntary exile. Many of those defending him were killed or
disappeared. There is still a warrant out for his arrest. Biafrans, supported by
IPOB, respond cannily to these targeted attacks organising stay-at-home days each
30th May, the day Biafra declared independence in 1967. No one in Biafraland
goes to work that day and the economy, along with everything else, grinds to a
halt. As Nigeria denies the human rights of Biafrans, the Biafrans become more
skilled in honing those rights. IPOB remains committed to non-violent campaigning. A Right to Self-Determination for Biafra
International law is clear in relation to self-determination. Where there is a
credible claim for self-determination the only way to resolve the issue is by
holding a referendum which complies with international standards. IPOB is
calling for a referendum. It is for that reason the Nigerian authoritieshave sought to brand IPOB as a terrorist organisation. The
EU, the UK and the US have all rejected the labeling of IPOB as a terrorist
group. They know that IPOB seeks only to uphold human rights. Impunity for
Northerners?
It
is not only the direct attacks on Biafrans by the Nigerian state that
perpetuate the intimidation and torment of
Biafrans. Nigeria’s policies of accommodating Northerners have a direct impact
on Biafrans. No different to 1967, Northerners act with impunity in Biafraland. The
current land crisis in Biafra caused by Fulani herders is just one more chapter
of brutality facing the Biafran people carried out with the tacit support of
the Nigerian state. Despite the apparent suspension of RUGA, Northerners
continue to threaten Southerners, including Biafrans. They will have no peace
if Fulanis are not allowed to establish the RUGA scheme, the Fulani say. This
land crisis throws into sharp relief Nigeria’s crisis. The Government of
Nigeria is, to all intents and purposes, giving land to Fulani herders from the
North which belongs to Biafran farmers. These are the same Biafrans who
legitimately claim their right to self-determination. Biafran
farmers live in fear. The farmers of Ebonyi and Enugu are particularly
affected. This torment must end. Biafra is
entitled to resolve its own future and security. Why Self-Determination
Matters
IPOB has always called for creative solutions to recognise Biafrans’ right to
self-determination. However, what is clear is that the existing model of the
Nigerian constitution is fatally flawed. It continues to cause harm to all
within the jurisdiction and it is unsustainable. Nigeria
may once have worked for the British as a colonial administration. It has never
worked as an independent state. To this
extent, it is a failed state. Nigeria is an artificial vehicle which buttresses
those with power, or aspirations for power. As there is no legitimacy to the
state of Nigeria, there is no rule of law. Law is used as a tool of coercion by
the authorities to crush opposition. Others, such as the Fulani herders, simply
ignore the law and act with impunity. Biafra:
Africa’s Future
Biafran pleas for self-determination are ignored by the international
community. Why are Biafran voices not heard? Resolving Biafra’s legitimate
claim for self-determination will resolve Nigeria’s crisis. Biafra is a
forgotten global crisis. IPOB believes that by resolving Biafra’s right to
self-determination, Africa’s peaceful
future will be revealed. To that extent, Biafra is Africa’s future. The effects
of Nigeria’s permanent state of conflict
resonates across the continent.