A model has sued world famous comedian, Kevin Hart over a 2017 s*x tape which she claimed he filmed. Kevin Hart is being sued for a hefty $60 million (£48 million) by the woman he allegedly appeared in a s*x tape with. Montia Sabagg has filed a lawsuit against the 40-year-old comedian, accusing him of ‘conspiring’ to film the intimate footage ‘without her knowledge’.In September 2017, footage was being shopped around of Hart allegedly engaging in s*xual intercourse with Sabagg in a Las Vegas hotel room during his marriage to wife Eniko Hart. The comedian’s friend, Jonathan ‘JT’ Jackson, was later arrested for allegedly trying to sell the footage and Hart claimed he was the victim of ‘extortion’. However TMZ claims to have obtained court documents filed on behalf of Sabagg, allegedly accusing the comedian of involvement. In the 38-page complaint, Sabagg claims she ‘had no knowledge that the intimate activity… was being recorded’, while Hart is accused of allowing Jackson to ‘set up a hidden video recording device’ in the hotel room. The video reportedly shows Montia ‘n*ked from the waist down and engaged in private, consensual sexual relations with Hart’. According to the publication, the court papers claim Hart hoped the sex tape would drum up publicity for his Irresponsible stand-up tour. When reports of the sex tape emerged two years ago, Kevin posted a public apology to his wife Eniko Hart and kids. The Think Like A Man actor said in a video: ‘I’m at a place in my life where I feel like I have a target on my back and because of that, I should make smart decisions. And recently, I didn’t.‘You know, I’m not perfect. I’m not going to sit up here and say that I am or claim to be in any way shape or form.’ Hart continued: ‘I made a bad error in judgment and I put myself in a bad environment where only bad things can happen and they did.‘And in doing that, I know that I’m going to hurt the people closest to me, who’ve I talked to and apologised to, that would be my wife and my kids.’ The Hollywood star is currently recovering from a car accident that left him requiring back surgery, but he is said to be on the mend. Source