•IPOB leader Nnamdi Kanu By Pamela Eboh, Awka AWKA – The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has described Tuesday’s appearance of its leader, Nnamdi Kanu, at the European Parliament in Brussels, Belgium that signifies that IPOB is not only respected but regarded as a force. A statement on Wednesday by the group’s Media and Publicity Secretary, Comrade Emma Powerful, said that the meeting has proved that restoration of Biafra project is divinely ordained by Almighty God. IPOB noted that all efforts by the Nigerian Government to intimidate and bully the organisers failed spectacularly adding that the seed of Biafra self-determination has been planted in the heart of the EU. The group hailed IPOB hardcore followers across Europe, especially those that drove for two days from Norway and other countries to be part of the historic engagement. The statement partly reads: “The awesome and great turn out of our Biafran brothers and sisters in Brussel is confirmation that all our people need right now is Biafra and nothing else. “Our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu made it clear that the struggle for Biafra freedom has shifted to the international community. We are demanding the European Union to hold Nigeria to account for serial human rights abuses and most critically to support the fundamental right of Biafra to seek self determimation within the ambit of international law. “We remain conscious of the fact that the Nigerian government will continue with their blackmail, subterfuge and misinformation but we wish to assure them that IPOB diplomatic team has more pedigree than anything Nigeria Foreign Affairs Ministry can muster. “Their desperate bid and effort to stop our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu from meeting with EU parliamentarians has failed and will continue to fail. The more the Nigerian state fights IPOB, the stronger and more resolute we become. All their efforts failed woefully because God Almighty the creator of Heaven and Earth is on the side of the Biafran people. “Our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu assured every Biafran after the meeting that his next diplomatic mission will be to the UN. Our diplomatic moves is designed to take Biafra freedom to another level, way beyond the imagination of the Nigerian government, before the end of this year.” The statement further explained that Kanu during his address to the huge crowd that came to greet him after the event, promised Biafrans that he will be in Washington DC and United Nations. The statement insisted that IPOB has a global recognition and respect, saying that “the time had come for the Nigerian government to acknowledge the obvious fact.” It also commended the European Parliament, especially those members that invited Kanu “to the hugely successful landmark and historical briefing session with IPOB.” (News Express) 