Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has explained that he congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari after the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal confirmed his election because it is better to offer public congratulations than to visit the president at night. Governor Wike said that unlike some governors of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), who visit President Buhari at night, he made his declaration public because it came from the heart. He spoke at the funeral service in honour of Late Madam Blessing Awuse, mother of Onha Sergent Awuse, at the St Luke’s Anglican Church, Emohua. He said: “I am sure all of you are surprised that I congratulated Buhari. Is it not good for me to congratulate him than to go to his house in the night? “So many PDP governors go to see him in his house in the night. I have never gone and I will not go. I won’t go,” he declared. “We are the only state that the Federal government refused to pay the money used to execute Federal projects because I don’t go to see him in the night and I won’t go. He is not my friend, he is not doing well, but he won in court, should I say that the court did wrong, no! “President Buhari should and carry Nigerians along and unify the country; the country is too divided. I am saying what is right. What I will do, I will do, what I will not do, I will not do,” he insisted. Governor Wike said politics is a game of interest, noting that Rivers people in the All Progressives Congress were under obligation to attract Federal benefits to the state. ‘Politics is a game of interest. And my only interest is Rivers State. Anything that is against the interest of Rivers State, I will not agree. “These people sold us out, thinking that they are doing Governor Wike. It is the state that they are offending, because I am just one person,” he emphasised. Governor Wike expressed displeasure that Rivers has key links to President Buhari from the state, yet the East-West Road, the seaports and other Federal projects, had been completely neglected since 2015. He said nothing had indicated that Rivers has prominent APC members working with President Buhari. The state governor maintained that Rivers is a Christian state. He said that the facts of Rivers being a Christian State would not be changed by negative propaganda and falsehood targeted at his person. Wike reiterated that he never demolished a mosque as was falsely circulated by some mischief-makers. He said Rivers is a major oil-producing state that deserves major projects from the Federal government. “We produce oil. They should not punish Rivers State because of me. I am just one individual. We have not benefited anything from the Federal government. The only thing we have benefited is the abuse they heap on me. “They turned the NDDC into a cash cow to sponsor elections against us. Nobody protested that anomaly. Now they want us to protest because someone did not nominate the management of NDDC this time. “Since 2015, NDDC has not had its governing board, but nobody protested. I will not be dragged into such protests,” he said. On the passage of Late Mrs Awuse, Governor Wike said she lived a fulfilled life and raised disciplined and trustworthy children. He said that her burial was a celebration of life. Chief mourner, Ohna Sergeant Awuse, thanked Wike for his love and friendship. He said the governor always intervenes at the most critical time. Anglican Bishop of Ikwerre Diocese, Rt. Rev Blessing Enyindah, praised the Rivers State governor for his commitment to the development of the state. He urged Wike to continue with his good works, saying that the governor should focus on the people in all his programmes. (Daily Sun) Source News Express