By Sani Abdulrahman Kaduna – The Kaduna State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), has began a five- day training of 6,828 teachers on Reading And Numeracy Activity (RANA). The Executive Chairman, Kaduna SUBEB, Malam Abdullahi Sani, made this known to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) while supervising the training across primary schools on Wednesday in Kaduna. Sani said that the training was in line with Better Education Service Delivery for All (BESDA), meant to improve literacy and enrol the 145,000 out-of-school children in the state into school. He said: “One of the components of BESDA which is RANA, is to teach the teachers or facilitators the local language which would eventually enhance learning to primary one pupils upon their entry. “The training is to ensure the pupils can understand the letters and numeracy aspects of the learning process taught by their teachers. “The Kaduna state government is ready to improve and make better the education sector of the state especially the foundation level. “The state government is also planning on ‘Open Schooling’ to enroll children who are roaming about our streets. “The teachers have a special role to play which is to inform their neighbourhood and other people who have neglected sending their children to school. “Most of the anti social problems we are experiencing today in our societies especially security, it’s as a result of illiteracy amongst our youths who were neglected without education during their childhood. “We have  earlier advised the teachers to refrain from unwanted behaviors and attitudes in front of the pupils which would have everlasting impact on their behavior and upbringing”. Sani urged the teachers to put efforts in understanding the purpose of the training which would ease the teaching process and enable pupils to understand better while in higher classes. One of the trainees, Mrs Hindatu Aliyu, in an interview with NAN, said she had understood how to read the Hausa alphabets, how to sing and make sentences with them. Another trainee, Malam Muhammad Usman, said the training on local language was a good idea which would enhance teachers communication skills while in class. NAN reports that the programme was to support the Universal Basic Education Commission in addressing the problem of out-of-school children in the country. NAN also reports that the Kaduna State Government and World Bank had earlier in May 2019, concluded plans to enroll no fewer than 145,000 out-of-school children and almajiris into primary schools across the state by September.