By Muftau Ogunyemi Akure – The Fadama lll AF Project in Ondo State says it has disbursed about N94 millon to no fewer than 258 unemployed graduates under the Fadama Graduate Unemployed Youth/Women Scheme project(Fadama GUYS). Mr Adebayo Ogidan, state Project Engineer and Desk Officer for Fadama GUYS, made the disclosure on Friday in Akure during a visit to farms of some beneficiaries. Ogidan, who explained that the beneficiaries cut across the 18 Local Government Areas of the state, said that FADAMA was able to achieve the feat because the Oluwarotimi Akeredolu-led government paid the counterpart funds for Fadama lll AF project. According to him, Ondo State is one of the 21 in the country that benefited under the Fadama GUYS programme, adding “the grant is from World Bank through the National Fadama AF project”. He explained that the scheme started in 2017 and about 300 unemployed graduates were trained in three centres across the state. The centres were the Federal University of Technology, Akure, Federal College of Agriculture, Akure and Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko. “In Ondo State, we trained about 300 unemployed graduates out of which 258 finally benefited under the programme and N94 million was disbursed to them “So, we have been on it since 2017. Luckily, in 2019, the funds were released from National Fadama lll AF project office, Abuja, to their various bank accounts. “Since about three months ago, they have received their money and started implementing their projects. “Today, we went out to visit some of their projects and we are happy because they are doing fine and some of them have started harvesting their produce. “From their testimonies, you could see they are happy and they appreciate what the government has done for them by removing them from the unemployment market as they are sure of some income now,” he said. He said the aim was to empower unemployed graduates so that they could establish various agricultural enterprises, be employed, get income and be sure that there would be food security across the nation. “They were empowered to establish various agricultural enterprises, including crops production, livestock production (poultry, goat and sheep, pigry production) “Some of them are  also into various fish production such as cat fish production and fish processing, agricultural processing centres such as cassava processing centres,” he said. A fish farmer in Oyemekun, Akure, Obanaye Kazeem, who said he had harvested his fish a week ago, appreciated the state government and Fadama lll for counting  him worthy of the empowerment. “I was given N408,000 to establish fish farming and in my first crop, I got over N100,000 as profit. ” So I am planning to expand my farm with the money I got from the sales,” he said. Mr Ojo Oluwole, the leader of a three-man group, who is into poultry in Ijo-mimo,Ijoka area of Akure, said the empowerment initiative was a positive development. “Each one of us in the group got N380,000 and we have 300 birds (Chicken), that is 100 per person. ” So when we start to produce eggs, we are expecting nothing less than 10 creates of egg everyday and it will amount to N8,000. So at the end of the week, it will amount something,” he said. Also speaking, David Robinson, leader of 20 Fadama GUYS in Iju/ Itaogbolu in Akure North Local Government, who said they cultivated 30 hectares of maize and cassava, said each of them got N336,726 from Fadama. “We have 20 GUYS as a cluster and it has been a great success. We are expecting about 900 tonnes yield of maize and cassava at the end our harvest. “We do really appreciate Federal Government and Ondo State Government for giving us this opportunity, we say a very big thank you, ” he said. (NAN)