Students, who reside in Auchi Polytechnic hostel, Estako West Local Government Area of Edo State have described the current situation within the institution as worrisome, calling on the school management to urgently arrest the ugly trend that may cause grievous harm to students, especially with the current alleged invasion of the hostel by reptiles. The hostel inhabitants, comprising students, canteen operators and business owners, told our reporter that they now live in fear as they don’t know who may likely be the next casualty concerning the recent discovery of snakes that now fall from the hostel ceilings. According to sources, “We now live in fear over the recent discovery of snakes in the hostel. “We are living in fear in this hostel, snakes were found and killed yesterday in one of the girls hostels. Snakes are now everywhere and nothing is being done about it. “Somebody (one of the girls) was bathing in the bathroom and a snake almost fell on her. She ran out naked. She was very lucky. “Snakes are just everywhere as you see this hostel, even in the portals offices, snakes have taken over, we are just confused. They will not give us light to see or read despite the fact that some of us are writing examination” “We are begging the school management to come to our aid and fumigate everywhere so we can be peaceful. Although management sent some persons to come and cut the grasses but look at it now, they don’t even look like grasses that were weeded. Not only the hostel, but they should also cut the grasses in the learning areas like Area 1, 2 and 3, ” he said. Meanwhile, a quick check at the polytechnic premises from Area 1 to 3 shows that the institution needs special attention. Reacting on the issue, the institution Public Relations Officer, Mustapha Osahiobugie, however, denied the narrative. He said the school hostel is placed on priority on the scale of preference as it concerns the students. “Whether there is BEDC power or not, we have two giant generator set aside for students alone so that they can have adequate power supply. I’m happy you are an ex-student of the school, our hostel building is two storeys. We do spot check every the weeks and non of our ceilings is compromise, the roofs are ‘parafect’ well covered, how a snake we now fall from the ceiling, i don’t understand. So that is not correct maybe the students that told you do not reside in the Hostel” “On the environment as it relates sanity, the horticulture staff are fully in charge but i will inform them right away to go and check the sports complex and every area concerned,” he added. Source