By Olanrewaju Akojede Lagos – The Director-General, Lagos State Sports Commission (LSSC), Oluwatoyin Gafar, on Monday said that the 100 days of Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s administration had been fulfilling for sports. Gafar made the assertion in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) while reflecting on the successes recorded in the first hundred days of the governor. He said that the 100 days had been sport rewarding with some critical sponsorship of international competitions such as Lagos International Badminton Classics and International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) Challenge Plus among others. “In this first 100 days, the administration of the Sanwo-Olu has done excellently well and it is sports fulfilling. “We have been able to hold the Lagos International Badminton Classics, ITTF Challenge Plus, we have hosted the FIFA delegation for the U-20 Women World Cup and Lagos State Sport Summer Camp. “We have also gone for the South-West Elimination for the National Youth Games which we qualified for in nine games out of the 14 available. We also have other sports that we partnered with. “The FIFA inspection team for the Women U-20 World Cup are satisfied with our bid and the state is ready to host. Also the summer camp is the first of its kind in the country. “More than this, we have embarked on the upgrade of our sports facilities. In line with all Sanwo-Olu’s promises during electioneering, it is promises made with promises kept,’’ he said. On the readiness of the state for the National Youths Games in Ilorin, the LSSC Chairman, Kweku Tandoh, said that the state was prepared, adding that necessary incentives had been provided. “We need to extend our deep appreciation to Gov. Sanwo-Olu because within the three months of his administration, we have had many sponsored competitions. “For the Youth Games in Ilorin, we can say that we are very much prepared because we have had tremendous support from the government. “The junior athletes have been in closed camp now and they will be leaving on Friday. We are also able to insure every athlete with LASACCO Insurance. “It is not that we are envisaging bad things, but we want to do what we have to do. Also, we have also partner with the Ministry of Education about those school children going for the Games,’’ he said. (NAN)