By Vivian Emoni Abuja – Mr Shehu Lawan, the Director, Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB) on says the board is committed to effective sensitisation campaign on the effect of climate change to FCT residents. Lawan made this known during the 2019 World Environmental Health Day, in Abuja with the theme: “Climate Change Challenges, Time for Global Environmental Health to Act in Unison’’. He said that AEPB was committed to instructing all the staff of the board to embark on effective sensitisation campaign to the general public on the climate change challenges and its effects in the FCT. “ Abuja Environmental Protection Board has come up to join the world to celebrate this year`s world health day. “As a result, there is a call for environmental health practitioners to play a pivot role in adaptation of strategies and measures to protect our environment. “There is also a need to instruct and educate communities against the challenges and effects of climate variability at the grassroots level. “I want to assure the public that the board will rededicate all the members of the staff to educate people on the effect of climate change. “The sensitisation will help people to know the kind of activities the public can be doing to mitigate climate change effectively,’’ he said. “According to World Health Organisation (WHO)  between 2030 to 2050 climate change is expected to cause approximately 250,000 additional deaths yearly from malnutrition, malaria diarrhea among others,’’ he said. Lawan, however, urged all the relevant stakeholders to join hands to ensure effective mitigation of climate change and protection of environment across the country. Mr Damian Mgbaramuko, the President, Environmental Health Officers Association of Nigeria (EHOAN) said the purpose celebrating the environmental health day was to raise global attention on issues affecting environmental health globally. Mgbaramuko said that climate change remained a very complex issue, adding that global communities were faced with the challenges of how to predict its occurrences. He said that the communities were also faced with challenges on how to prepare and put measures that would help communities cope with the unpleasant consequences brought about by climate change. “It is no longer news that the climate continues to change for the worst. Climate change is a change in the statistical properties of the climate that persist for several decades or even longer. “The need to take action to address climate change challenges is very important and something needful must be done. “Our communities should be adequately educated to desist from practices that are harmful to environmental health,’’ he said. Mr Simeon Ajueyitsi, the Director, Environmental Health Department, AEPB called on relevant stakeholders to take adequate actions in ensuring effective ways to tackle the climate change challenges. Ajueyitsi said that climate change was a variation of weather conditions over a long period of time, adding that the realities of climate change must be addressed efficiently. According to him, there will be hope if we invest more on public enlightenment with a goal of dissuading both the illiterates and literates. “There will be also hope if we use appropriate platforms that will reduce and control climate change. “We are in one way or the other sufferers of environmental insult, due to our unwillingness to do the needful by adopting environmentally friendly alternatives,’’ he said. (NAN)