Lagos – A man of God has received the beating of his life after he lost concentration and tried to deliver a woman sexually in Lagos. The Police at Ejigbo Division led by CSP Olabisi Okuwobi have rescued and arrested a 40-year old pastor, David Daniel, who reportedly went to conduct deliverance on a single lady in Lagos but started masturbating after seeing her captivating bums. A report by PM Express revealed that the incident happened at Ailegun Road, Bucknor Estate, Ejigbo area of Lagos, where the lady resides and does her business. The lady, simply known as Happiness, raised alarm and the neighbours, who heard her voice, rushed in. They reportedly joined hands and beat up the pastor before the Police went there and rescued him. According to the victim, Happiness, she was in her shop when Pastor Daniel came and gave her prophecy about her family and her life generally, which she said were facts and she was convinced that he was a man of God. She said Pastor Daniel went further and told her that he needed to go to her house to anoint it with olive oil since she just moved into the apartment and she accepted. She said it was when she got into her bedroom that he brought the olive oil and wanted to rub it into her private part. She reportedly resisted him before he asked her to get up and face the Bible. He was said to have moved to her back while praying; using his mouth to caress her bum. “He asked me to pack my clothes tightly so that the shape of my bums will show and started praying. While he spoke in tongues, i looked back only to see him using the olive oil to masturbate his dick and later went to the toilet” she said. However, after the encounter, Happiness said she realised that he was not a real Pastor but before then he had forced her to sow seed with money and collected her perfume. She further narrated that after the prayers and the purported deliverance in her house, Pastor Daniel then told her that he wanted to marry and will making love to her. It was such illicit move the next day to have s-x with Happiness that landed Pastor Daniel in trouble as he was thoroughly beaten up by the neighbours when she raised alarm. Pastor Daniel is now being detained at the police station. He will be charged to court for his conduct. Source