Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) and Governor and of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode John Fayemi has warned that the abolition of security votes as being advocated in some quarters, would breed chaos in the polity instead of curbing corruption. Addressing discussants
at the quarterly policy dialogue on accountability for security votes,
organised by the Anti-Corruption Academy of Nigeria (ACAN) in Abuja on
Wednesday, he maintained that there can be no development without security. He spoke on the topic,
“Security Votes: Are they necessary? Are they legitimate?” The NGF argued that security votes had existed even before the coming of the military to power in Nigeria, saying that doing away with them would instead of addressing corruption, hinder development and security in the country. He said, the answer to
your question as to whether security votes are necessary is an emphatic “Yes”
and buttressed his arguments with copious anecdotes from the United States
Congress, several publications and examples. Dr Fayemi said that
the abolition of security votes will bring down development, increase
insecurity and also slow down the various states’ response to emergencies. Fayemi argued against
those who said security votes were illegal quoting from the constitution and
other relevant authorities to emphasize the fact that security votes are not
only legal but have been in existence since the colonial era. “Governments all over the
world have security votes but they may not call it the same name as ours
because for obvious reasons, government business may not necessarily be all in
the public glare.” Fayemi attributed the
Iran Contra affair and other government action in South America as products of
the use of security votes which those governments conveniently put away from
the eyes of their citizens. However, the governor
stated that in his state every transaction involving security votes are very
well documented and receipted but nevertheless argued that unless something is
done to ameliorate the malaise abuse of security votes in the country would
continue to be rife. The NGF Chairman then
adduced his argument to the creation of State Police which he prescribed as the
antidote to the expenditure being incurred by governors in the types of
assistance that governors render to the Nigeria Police Force, which according
to him when allowed to be would diminish the complaints that abound. Earlier, the Provost
of the Anti-Corruption Academy of Nigeria, Professor Sola Akinrinade while
welcoming the Guest Speaker also enunciated that removing security votes would
be counter-productive but cleared the grounds to hear the submissions of the
Governor. On his part, the Chairman
of ICPC Professor Bolaji Owasanoye who was miffed by the allocation of a paltry
N3600 as security votes to an MDA sought explanation which the governor
explained could not have been intended to mean that the amount was for such
expenditure but might have been so called for want of nomenclature. The Chairman of the NGF in concluding advocated a partnership between the NGF and the ACAN to work out modalities that would lift the issue of security votes and its accounting processes to meet global best practices, in order to finally douse the hew and cry that has accompanied the matter over time. Culled from Tribune