By Kazeem Akande Lagos – The Agbado Oke-Odo Local Council Development Area (LCDA) on Tuesday urged nursing mothers in the area to key into the Lagos State Government’s newly introduced vaccine aimed at preventing meningitis in children. Mrs Julie Iyamu, the Health Education Officer in the LCDA, made the appeal while addressing mothers at the monthly Community Development Committee (CDC) meeting at the LCDA Secretariat, Abule-Egba, Lagos. “The Lagos State Ministry of Health as well as the State and National Primary HealthCare Development Agencies announced the introduction of Meningitis vaccine (Men-A vaccine) into routine Immunisation schedule in the state. “It started from Friday, Aug. 16, and targets children from nine months to 15 months old,” Iyamu said. According to her, the Meningitis vaccine is given at age nine months, alongside the Measles and Yellow Fever vaccines. Iyamu said it was very safe to take the three vaccines together the same day, adding that the newly introduced vaccine would prevent the deadly disease. She appealed to the community leaders to inform nursing mothers within their various localities to take their nine to 15 months old children to the nearest Primary Healthcare Centre for Meningitis vaccination. According to her, the immunisation is safe, free and effective. Julie also advised women from ages 17 years to 64 years to key into the free screening and treatment of cervical abnormalities being provided by the NGO, SEBECCLY Cancer Care. She said that SEBECCLY Cancer Care, offered free cervical cancer screening for women within that age range. “The screening started on Sept. 23 at three different centres in Lagos State at Iga-Iduganran Primary Health Centre Lagos Island; Aregbesola Primary Healthcare Centre at 1 Power line Str. Okunola, Egbeda, Lagos. “Also at Ikorodu, Ita Elewa Primary Health Centre, Lagos. “The screening is meant to detect early cervical cancer among sexually active women in the society. “At the early stage, there is no major sign or symptom of the cancer in the patients but the early detection will expose the cancer and reduce future damage,” the council official said. (NAN)