Nollywood is about to experience a legal battle between two of her top actresses, in the persons of Toyin Abraham and Lizzy Anjorin. The two movie stars haven’t been best of friends for a while now and apparently, their fight has reached a legal climax. Recall, Lizzy Anjorin had earlier taken to Instagram to call out Toyin Abraham formerly known as Toyin Aimakhu for allegedly opening fake social media accounts to troll her colleagues in the movie industry. Starting off her call-out post by stating that she is going to Toyin Aimakhu’s house, the Nollywood actress queried why most of the accounts her colleague claim is owned by her fans are always on private with no post. She further told Toyin Abraham to change as no one has the time to jump through different social media platforms to defend someone even when they have their own problem. Lizzy Anjorin wrote; “Oniro omo ale ..Na only you get fans wey dey look for trouble , why your fans no behave like this last year ?? Upper year , were was this fans when dey use to drag you dirty with egbe gbe ? . . Make I continue with facts . . Why 99.9 percent of this account you claimed as fans always on private with zero post .
Oja ti burst faa. God bless my fan for minding their business ,They will only explode when you come for their brand. Besides, na some comment expose you that you are behinde the shit ..otafa soke yido bori Chaaaaaaange no fans get time to dey jump up and down for one person …everybody get their own problem.. If my fans cant get me private jet biko no go look for trouble …but if they come for us ?? Kill them all with everything you have.” However, Toyin, via a lengthy post on Instagram, responded to the claim and she has said the matter will be taken to court. See below: “It has come as a rude shock that some upstarts masquerading as Nollywood actors keep dragging my name into unnecessary drama whenever they are trolled online. I’ve had my own share of online trolling but not for once did I drag the names of any actor or celebrities into the fray even when we don’t have cordial relationships. Today, an actress directly mentioned my name as the owner or informant of an Instagram blog, and libeled my person and reputation by implying I planted or published some negative news about her. Why she mentioned my name, I can’t say. What she’s trying to achieve, I can’t fathom. Long ago, I bade bye bye to unnecessary drama and petty online/offline squabbles and so I won’t descend to her gutter level. Her so-called “evidence” of my involvement was a comment I left on the page of a fan she suspected is behind the story. How I became connected to the story beats me. This level of cluelessness is mind-boggling. For the umpteenth time, stop holding me responsible for the actions or inactions of other people as it concerns you. Whether they are my fans or not, I don’t regulate or determine their behaviour or conduct. Nobody holds Beyonce responsible for what her teeming fans, “Beyhives” do. Anyways, I have instructed my lawyers to take up this matter and she will be hearing from them by Monday. It’s time to put a stop to online bullying and bad behaviour in line with the rule of law.” Lizzy Anjorin instead of piping low for the sake of the court papers she was served, went further in granting an interview with GBOAH TV, were she made further claims that Toyin Abraham is a bastard, she doesn’t have a car or house, she gave birth to her child in a local traditional house in Nigeria and lied she gave birth in London. She also alleged that she borrowed clothes for her maternity shoot and they are not on the same level. Watch the video of Lizzy Anjorin below: she gave birth to her child in a local traditional house in Nigeria and lied she gave birth in London.. She borrowed clothes for her maternity shoots… we are not on the same level … Lizzy Anjorin blows hot credit @gboahtv A post shared by  MORE JUICY NEWS B4 D LAST POST (@famousblogng) on Sep 16, 2019 at 6:32am PDT Source