Abuja (Sundiata Post) – West African Examinations Council WAEC, Registrar, Dr Iyi Uwadiae, has announced his retirement at the end of his tenure, which ends this month. Uwadiae disclosed this to newsmen at the WAEC International Office in Agidingbi, Ikeja, Lagos State, during a tele-conference from Ghana headquarters of the examining body yesterday, that his seven-year tenure (consisting a five-year official tenure and two-year extension) as the 12th registrar of the council, was successful. Recall that he took over from
another Nigerian, Alhaja Mulikat Bello, on October 1, 2012. He has, however, refused to name his
successor. The outgoing registrar said his
successor, who had been appointed, would be named when he assumes office on
October 1. He said, “I anticipate that you will
be anxious to know who is going to succeed me. I am glad to inform you that my
successor has been appointed. I will, however, want to appeal to you to grant
me the indulgence of not unveiling the personality at this forum. As you are
quite aware, the Council has an official process of doing so soon, after
assumption of office. There will be a press release or conference to that
effect,” he said. During his tenure, Uwadiae said the
council completed its headquarters, which took 15 years to build, in 2016. The registrar said Liberia fully
adopted the West African Senior Secondary Certificate Examinations (WASSCE)
last year, while the Council increased additional diets of the WASSCE and Basic
Education Certificate Examination for private candidates in member-countries. To prevent examination malpractice
and leakages, the Registrar said the Council acquired facilities to print
in-house. “The secretariat paid the deserved
attention to the issue of examination leakage and resolved to settle for
nothing short of total eradication of the nuisance. We pursued a status of
self-reliance in printing services, which could guarantee our set target of 100
per cent in-house printing of question papers. “As at now, each national office has
reached a certain stage in the establishment of an in-house printing press.
Other types of malpractice also received our deepest reflection, as the Council
constructed or furnished for use its own standard/model examination halls in
places like Lagos and Benin City in Nigeria, Accra, Cape Coast, Wa and
Koforidua in Ghana and Tubmanburg in Liberia,” he said. On the use of technology, Uwadiae
said the Council under him used software and various gadgets to prevent and
check examination malpractices. “We built tighter security around
our examination materials and conduct as various gadgets and software were
deployed for identification of candidates, capturing of data and detection of
irregularities at examination centres,” he said.