By Tukur Muntari Kano – The Tomato Growers Association of Nigeria (TOGAN) on Thursday commended the Federal Government for including its members in the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme. Alhaji Sani Danladi-Yadakwari, the Secretary General of the association, gave the commendation in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Kano. He said that the inclusion of tomato growers in the programme would not only boost tomato production in the country, but would also encourage more farmers to go into the business. The scribe noted that the association would ensure that only genuine tomato farmers benefit from the loan facility.“Based on previous experience, we are going to ensure that only genuine members of our association will benefit from the programme, hence we advised that only seedlings not seeds will be distributed to the farmers. According to him, each of the registered farmers cultivating one hectare would be given 33, 000 seedlings, 14 bags of NPK fertiliser, water pumping machine, liquid fertiliser, as well as other inputs at N724, 448.23, as the total loan package. “Each seedling will be given to farmers at the cost of N8.00, and the total cost of the 33, 000 seedlings is N264, 000.” He noted that the association had already screened over 7, 500 out of 10, 000 registered farmers, who would soon be given the loan ahead of the commencement of dry season farming activities at the end of October. The secretary general advised the association members to desist from disposing of the inputs, adding that any farmer caught selling the items would be sanctioned. “We want to assure our members that once they produce the commodity, there are off takers, who will buy it at the rate of N40 per kg. Danladi-Yadakwari said the association had met with the officials of the Kano State Agricultural and Rural Development Authority (KNARDA), with a view to supporting the farmers with extension workers. He noted that the extension workers were expected to assist farmers with new farming techniques, for improved productivity. (NAN)