Abuja (Sundiata Post) – A political activist and former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, on Sunday called on the international community to place visa restrictions on the five justices of the Appeal Court that presided over the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal (PEPT) over what he termed the gross miscarriage of justice and flagrant breach of the constitution. Frank also
called on the National Judicial Council (NJC) and the Supreme to review the
tribunal’s ruling and sanction the Justices for the “deliberate perversion of
justice.” Reacting to the
recent judgement of the PEPT in favour of the presidential candidate of the
APC, Frank in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja on Sunday, said it
was obvious that the judgement was written by elements in the presidency. He said that he
was convinced that PEPT’s ruling on the fact that it was not necessary to
present certificates to contest for political offices in the country had
created problem for the nation’s education sector as it would now be difficult
to convince children to go to school or tell those in school to study hard to attain
excellence in their educational pursuit. He, however,
called on the United States of America (USA), United Kingdom, United Nations
and other critical democratic stakeholders to take a punitive step against the
five justices led by Justice Mohammed Lawal Garba, by placing them and their
families on visa ban. According to
Frank, both local and international election observers had raised questions
about the conduct of the election, particularly unjustified interventions by
security forces in favour of Buhari and the APC, “they said the voting process
wasn’t transparent and the Nigerian civil society group, a coalition made up of
over 70 civic groups that monitored the balloting also said the outcome wasn’t
credible. According to
him, “yet the presiding justices of the PEPT in giving their judgment said the
election was credible and dismissed the petition of the Peoples Democratic
Party (PDP) and their Presidential Candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar “This outcome
was only possible because the judgement was written by the presidency. “I, therefore, call on the international
community such as the US, UK, EU and others to place a visa ban on the five
justices of the PEPT and members of their immediate family “The onus is on
the Supreme Court to show Nigerians and the world that the judiciary is indeed
the hope of the common man; it is incumbent on them to show that they are
indeed independent and have not been colonised and made a rubber stamp of the
executive in view of the unthinkable verdict of the five justices of the PEPT. “They simply
turned the judiciary into a black market where justice was measured and sold to
the highest bidder. The executive has always accused the judiciary of
corruption and the five justices have just confirmed it by this judgment. “They have
brought shame on the Nigerian judiciary and must be sanctioned appropriately by
the NJC to serve as a deterrent to others and restore sanity to the judiciary.” Frank called on
the international community to help Nigeria out of her present mess, saying
that the country “is at a point where it may have civil unrest or a break up as
many regions have resumed agitation following the hope-dashing verdict. According to
him, “the international community should place visa restrictions on these five
justices like they have done to some corrupt politicians that participated in
rigging the last general elections. “Since these
five justices have traded away the opportunity to redeem the country’s
democracy by ridding it of electoral fraud, the Supreme Court must now be
courageous enough to rectify this judicial fraud in order to save Nigeria from
collapse. Show Nigerians that the judiciary is still the last hope of the
common man,” Frank said. He called on the
apex court to save the judiciary from the onslaught against it by the
executive, and failure to reverse PEPT’s ridiculous verdict would inevitably
render the judiciary toothless.