Abuja – So many youths have taken to the streets of Abuja to stage a protest against Bobrisky and his ‘ungodly behaviour’. Nigerian youths numbering over 500 on Wednesday took to the streets in Abuja to protest against what they described as moral decadence of Idris Okunneye popularly known as Bobrisky. The protesters, under the aegis of National Youths Council of Nigeria, while disowning him, said they stood by the National Centre for Arts and Culture, National Council of Women Society, Christian Association of Nigeria and other organizations that had taken a stand against Bobrisky and his activities. During the protests, the youths advanced from the NYCN secretariat to major landmarks in the FCT like the National Assembly, Force Headquarters and stopped at NCAC. They bore inscriptions and placards all condemning the negative culture promoted by Bobrisky and his cohorts. The Vice President of NYCN (North Central Zone), Mukhtar Jebba, described the activities of Bobrisky as “ungodly, unhealthy and disgusting.” According to him, what Bobrisky and his cronies were promoting was completely against the moral, cultural and spiritual values of Nigeria. He said, “Consequently, the NYCN today, September 18 2019 declares Bobrisky as persona non grata, as he is a man (not a woman). For national interest, we call on the ever-conscious, ever-ready, combatant Nigerian youths and comrades of like minds to, without fear or favour, kick out Bobrisky and his likes wherever they come across them. Nigeria is not a place for LGBT and we shall fight this to the end.” Jebba called on the Inspector-General of Police and the Director-General of the Department of State Service to use their good offices and their men to stop the likes of Bobrisky from rubbishing the country’s pride and image. The Director-General of NCAC, Otunba Segun Runsewe, while addressing the protesters, commended them for taking a stand against the vices promoted by Bobrisky. He said Nigeria’s respected cultural values must not be eroded by unguided people like Bobrisky, adding that NCAC “is working to redirect the negative trend.” Source