“Somewhere
along the way, the balance of power between the prosecution, the defense and
the judiciary shifted. We have to readjust it. The stakes are so high – the
well-being of so many communities and the trajectories of so many lives, public
safety depends on our collective faith in fairness and our view of the law as
legitimate” – Emily Bazelon Over
the last few years, the Nigerian judiciary has been perceived as the weeping
child of the three arms of government. Whether correctly or otherwise, the
common truth is that the man on the street thinks something is fundamentally
wrong with the judicial system in Nigeria. This perception places a huge moral
burden on the judiciary in this dispensation, and in going forward. For
the first time in the history of Nigeria, judges’ homes were invaded, many top
judicial officers are facing trial, and at the height of it all, a sitting
Chief Justice was made subject of a public ridicule and in the end, Justice
Walter Onnoghen is recorded as the first Chief Justice of Nigeria to be forced
out of office on allegations of corruption. To
put it mildly, the integrity of the judiciary in Nigeria has never been this
subjected to scrutiny and odium. To compound the problem of the judiciary, the
narrow-minded verdict of the Supreme Court in the now celebrated case of the
Osun State Governorship Election between Adeleke v Oyetola, seem to have further
widened the gulf of trust between the people and the judiciary. However,
the 2019 Presidential Election Tribunalpresents another presents another
opportunity to the judiciary, to rediscover itself. Since
March, the Tribunal has been fed with tons of evidence on what happened and did
not happen by both parties – People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and its
Presidential candidate AtikuAbubakar who is seeking the court’s confirmation of
himself as the winner and (or) disqualify candidate of the All Progressives
Congress (APC) President MuhammaduBuhari. Aside the APC and President Buhari,
the other respondent is the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) whose
conduct of that election has been severally lampooned. For
those who may not have followed the proceedings athe Tribunal, it is important
to note that the Petitioner has argued that: Indeed,
in the history of election petitions since Nigeria’s democracy, the amount of
witnesses and documented evidence presented by the petitioner including expert
witness, has not been recorded. In
a matter of hours, the five-man Appeal Court Judges would be expected to
deliver their verdict based on the evidences brought by them. Their task is one
which stands to make or mare the judiciary. Political
grandstanding notwithstanding, intimidations from the gladiators and their
agents notwithstanding, upon the shoulders of these five judges stands the hope
and future of the Nigerian judiciary. The
options before these judges are clear. They either choose to stand by truth
supported by evidences presented before them or they may adopt the new
albatross of the Nigerian judiciary called technicality and pass over the
burden of facing the facts as they are. Whichever way they choosetgo, it is a deeper
battle of them and their conscience, and the future of the country. And
as stated above by journalist and legal researcher, Emily Bazelon, the judges
as the Tribunal owe the legal profession, to Nigerians and humanity in general
to display justice and fairness. The judiciary obviously needs a readjustment. “The
well-being of so many communities and the trajectories of so many lives, public
safety depends on our collective faith in fairness and our view of the law as
legitimate”, Emily is not alone in this thought. The
world attention in this coming days is riveted on the Nigerian judiciary, the
decision or indecision of the five-man appeal tribunal is sacrosanct. SehindeOmooniyi
is a Socio-Political writer based in Abuja