September 16 – BudgIT co-founder, Seun Onigbinde, has resigned his appointment as Technical Adviser to the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, following the uproar his appointment generated. The vocal critic of the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration, in a statement on Monday, said his appointment had “created a complex narrative” and that “further reflections on the furore” made him resign the appointment. The Bloomberg trained data analyst wished the government of President Muhammadu Buhari well, promising to always be of help to the federal government in his capacity as the Director of BudgIT, a critical fiscal transparency group. “It is clear that recent media reports about my appointment have created a complex narrative, which I believe would engender an atmosphere of mistrust, as I planned to proceed,” Onigbinde said. “Upon further reflections on the furore that has been generated by my new role as the Technical Adviser to the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, I humbly resign the appointment. “I am very grateful to the Honourable Minister, Prince Clem Ikanade Agba, for believing in my expertise and I also thank everyone who sent his or her congratulations to me in the short period. I have also been humbled by the faith and belief that numerous persons have expressed in me. “My sincere interest is to see a Nigeria that grows and optimises resources for the benefits of all Nigerians. “My loyalty to the good cause of our nation, Nigeria compelled me to accept the call to provide technical skills and this experience has more than strengthened it. “I also want to wish the Nigerian Government, led by President Muhammadu Buhari, well. I will always be of help to the federal government in my capacity as the Director of BudgIT, a critical fiscal transparency group, as I have been to several agencies. I would also work to ensure that BudgIT continues to build civic awareness on the right of every Nigerian to know how public resources are managed,” he said. Onigbinde’s appointment had generated mixed reactions on social media, with some hailing the appointment, while others totally condemned it.