By Raphael Ede The police in Enugu State, on Monday, paraded the Financial Secretary of the All Progressives Congress in Ebonyi State, Mr Okenwa Uka, and 19 others for allegedly belonging to the Norsemen Vikings Confraternity. Also paraded were nine other suspects, who were arrested in various parts of Enugu State for various crimes ranging from armed robbery, kidnapping, murder and cultism. Parading the suspects in Enugu, the state Commissioner of Police, Mr Ahmad Abdulrahman, said the 20 suspected cultists were arrested at a hotel in GRA, Enugu, where they were holding a meeting on September 7, 2019, following intelligence information. Abdulrahman stated that members of the Vikings Confraternity went in disguise to the Corporate Affairs Commission and registered the De Norsemen Kclub Inc. as a “simple organisation.” The commissioner said a banner with the symbol/logo of the Norsemen, which is the same as that of Vikings Confraternity ‘Arrow Mate’ and envelopes containing documents and paper presented by one Henry Oputa, were recovered from the group. Abdulrahman also paraded one Tochukwu Ugwu and Prince Samuel Nnamani, leaders of the Vikings and Aiye Confraternity in Nsukka. Tochukwu, who hails from Orba, the state governor’s home town in the Udenu Local Government Area, confessed to belonging to a cult. The suspect, who was wearing army lifejacket, told journalists that he was working with a soldier based in Kano, who is now at large, adding that he supplied him the lifejacket and arms to protect himself. He said the soldier was a member of the Vikings Confraternity and he gave him a bulletproof vest and gun to keep for him. On his part Nnamani, who hails from Agbani in Nkanu West Local Government Area of the state, confessed to being a leader of the Aye confraternity. However, members of the De Norsemen Kclub, led by the South-East Zonal Coordinator, Uka, protested that they were not cultists, but members of an organisation that was duly registered and had been operating all over the country and beyond. (Punch) 