Lagos – Nigerians have protested at the CC7 Construction company following alleged murder of a Nigerian worker by his North Korea co-worker. A North Korean national who works with CC7 Construction company in Lekki area of Lagos state, has been accused of killing a Nigerian man said to be his co-worker during a heated argument at the company. The victim has been identified as Chinua Nwogu, who reportedly works with the company as a Chinese translator. It was gathered that he was allegedly hit with a forklift by the North Korean man. The Nigerian man has been confirmed dead; the company claimed it was an accident to protect its image and that of its foreign workers. The cold feet in reporting the case to the police for an investigation to be carried out, led to a protest at the company. Emeka Anudu wrote:“HE WAS MURDERED IN HIS OWN COUNTRY BY A NORTH KOREAN SADIST .This is not xenophobic saga, this is wickedness , this is murder , this is evil. CHINUA NWOGU hails from Imo State , a schooled graduate of Mass communication , and also holds a diploma in Chinese Language all in federal polytechnic Oko. Until he was murdered by a North Korean co worker at CC7 Construction company Lekki Lagos over a mere misunderstanding, he works with the company as a Chinese translator . Below are the supportive clips and testimony from his fellow African colleague showing how cruel they were to him, and how they allowed him to die. The company wanted to claim it was an accident, just to protect the interest of their foreign brothers and that of the companies image. This murderous act could still be going on , and could be any of our relation.Currently, there is an ongoing protest in the companies premises seeking justice to the death of this my friend and course mate then in school.. We pray you to please share this across various media platforms till it gets to the concerned Authority, to his state Governor, senator representing his Zone, and that of their House representative. “ See the post below:  Source 