By Mohammed Lawal Zaria – National Secretary of  Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), Mr Shuaibu Leman, says the union, in collaboration with two non-governmental organisation, is working on a framework of Police-Media relations to enhance safety of journalists and promote transparency and accountability. Leman, who stated this in a telephone interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday, explained that the effort would also guarantee press freedom and deepen democracy. “Presently, the union, in collaboration with the Media Foundation for West Africa and the International Media Support, is working on a framework of Police-Media relations. ‘This move will enable the drafting of an article of cooperation and facilitate cooperation between the Police, the Media and the public in the area of the safety of journalists. “It is also meant to enhance press freedom and deepen democracy, accountability, transparency and greater societal responsibility,’ he said. On welfare of Journalists, the National Secretary  said the union had on different occasions, engaged media owners on non- payment of salaries and wrongful and arbitrary termination of appointments of journalists. “These ugly practices continue unabated simply because most in-house union members will rather not report such violations to the national secretariat of the union for appropriate action. “Many are afraid of repercussions from employers and they continue to suffer in silence, that is for private media organisations. “However, for federal and state-owned media organisations, the situation is better. “We continue to encourage members to report any form of harassment or rights violation to enable the union take the desired steps,” he advised. He explained that the union had succeeded in negotiating improved conditions of service with many media organisations, in addition to curtailing arbitrary terminations of appointments. Leman stated that the union also had an insurance policy for members which is presently being reworked out to cater for health issues. Similarly, he said, the union would continue to ensure the safety and security of Journalists by interfacing with agents of the state.