The Nigeria Communications Commission (NCC) has restated its commitment to the protection of telecommunications consumers’ rights. Speaking at the NCC Day on Friday at the Abuja International Trade Fair at JT. Useni Permanent Trade Fair Complex Airport Road, Abuja, the Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) of NCC, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta said that NCC has always recognised the importance of the consumer in the telecom sector and believes that customer is truly king. The commission, he said, also identifies the consumer’s role in the development of the telecom sector and that they deserve to have value for their investment. According to him, providing quality services to consumers promotes competition among service providers. The NCC Day at the trade fair is specially organised to provide a platform for direct interface to look at issues confronting customers and stakeholders. ‘’We believe that telecoms services are very critical to the overall socioeconomic development of the Nigerian citizenry. In addition, as the independent telecom regulator in Nigeria we recognise that the consumers of telecoms services deserve to get value for their money and be treated as very important stakeholders in the scheme of things as far as service delivery is concerned,’’ Danbatta said. Danbatta further said that the issue of empowerment and protection of the consumer is one of the 8-Points Agenda of the commission. ‘’The vision of this agenda item is to protect consumers from unfair practices through availability of information and education to make informed choices in the use of ICT services. The strategy which we have adopted in achieving this agenda is to strengthen initiatives such as NCC Day at strategic international trade fairs, to educate and inform consumers in the use of communication services.’’ He revealed that the commission, because of its commitment to consumer protect has a full fledge department set up to cater to all consumer needs. With the theme, ‘Remodelling SMEs Financing: Options and solutions,’’ this year’s International Trade Fair according to the President of Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Prince Adetokunbo Kayode is intended to embark on actions, activities and programs that will ease the difficulties faced by SMEs. He also identified the important link between telecommunications and SMEs development. ‘’Telecommunication is an important tool for business. It enables companies to communicate effectively with customers and deliver high standards of customer service. Investment in telecommunication infrastructure will not only increase general business efficiency but increase the impact of other infrastructure investments,’’ he said. He also applauded NCC for creating an enabling environment for competition among operators in the industry as well as ensuring the provision of qualitative and efficient telecommunications services throughout the country, especially in maintaining transparent regulatory processes as well as protecting consumer rights. The NCC have developed various initiatives to help customers including a toll free compliant line 622, and a DO-NOT-DISTURB (DND) 2442 short code to opt out of unsolicited messages from service providers.