By Olatunde Odebiyi The Rotary Club of Festac Town in Lagos State will sponsor the fibroid surgery and treatment of 10 women at a cost of N3million, its president Mrs Onyinye Ogbonna, has said. She spoke at the weekend during her investiture as the 38th president of the club. The ceremony, which held at Golden Tulip Hotel, Festac Town, also featured the investiture of the club’s Board of Directors, launch of the club’s projects/fundraising. Awards were given to some distinguished persons with sterling performance in their professions and selfless service to humanity. Mrs Ogbonna said the sponsorship was meant to give those diagnosed with fibroid the chance to live a normal life. She said: “We intend to provide boreholes for selected settlements in Amuwo-Odofin. We will empower and equip 20 women on vocational skills acquisition, embark on charity visitation to Beth Tarrey Home in Festac Town, donate birthing kits to 20 women, donate computer sets to identified schools and we will go further on our scholarship schemes to beneficiaries.” Mrs.Ogbonna said Rotary International is the world’s first service organisation with over 1.5 million members in 340,000 clubs across the world. “We are volunteers who work locally and internationally to fight hunger, provide quality education, improve health and sanitation, improve child maternal health and eradicate polio,” she said. Rotary District Governor for District 9110, Dr Jide Akeredolu, urged Ogbonna to maximise her one-year tenure and keep the standard of the club high. “You will also hand over next year what would be your achievements,” he said. Describing the tenure of immediate past President Felix Nnamezie as impressive and successful, the Rotarian implored him to be there for the new president to advise and guide her with his experience. The guest speaker and Editor of TheNation, Mr Adeniyi Adesina, spoke on: The Role of the Media in a Developing Economy. He said Rotary International is a critical partner in the evolution of Nigeria with its immense contribution to the socio-economic development of the country and its people. The editor explained that the media are expected to hold government accountable, educate the public, make government responsible and responsive. Adesina said: “For the media to play its role effectively in developing economies, they must uphold the Code of Ethics of the profession, which includes truth, balance, fairness, accuracy. They are expected to perform their statutory roles in tune with the extant political environment, create a synergy between the government and the people, such that where government programmes are anti-people, the media would have to put sufficient information in the public glare to make the people reject them and make government change its mind for the public good. “When government churns out courageous and/or people-friendly policies, the media must mobilise the people to support such policies to entrench good governance and development. The media have a role to galvanise the civil society to retool and re-engineer in the interest of the people. “The media must provide opportunities for citizens to know and participate in how they are governed, because feedback is central to governance; it builds trust and confidence, thus making governance seamless and productive.” (The Nation)