Veteran reggae musician, Majekodunmi Fasheke, aka Majek Fashek has been in and out of one hospital or rehabilitation Centre in recent time. In the past few weeks, he has been going through a very rough time as he is hospitalised at Queen’s Hospital, London for a serious illness. He got ill last month and was flown to London on August 24, 2019 after a brief admission at St. Nicholas Hospital, Lagos. The singer is said to be in need of about N 2.2 million to cater for feeding, transportation amongst other expenses. His Manager Uzoma Day Omenka confirmed that the singer who is famous for his Send Down The Rain is in dire need of financial assistance to pull through these rough times. He told The Nation that the singer who has been in grave condition currently receiving treatment but with little change. HE assured that Majek Fasshek will walk soon. On the state of health of Fashek, Omenka said: “The condition some days back is different from today. There is a little improvement and he should be able to walk soon. The prayers are also working. It is a very critical sickness since we came in and we have been managing. We have been moving from one hospital to another. “At presently, I owed a lot in Lagos because I have had to take a lot of undertaking for some of his treatments. We are at Queens Elizabeth Hospital and the treatment is ongoing. Just a little bit of improvement. All we need presently is prayers from well-wishers and those who have supported us before now. We are appreciative of all that is being done for Majek. “But at this period, we are in dire need of fund and whatever comes in will be used for his health care. A notable Nigerian came to our aid and paid part of the bill. But, we need funds for feeding, clothing, transportation and others. So far, I only have N40, 000, which was sent to us recently. It is not even up to a hundred pounds. That is what i have for now,” he revealed. Recalling how the illness started, Omenka said that it has been difficult travelling to different states for medical attention, saying it was like wasting money to look for money. “It is a really bad experience and it is really painful. A journey of six hours takes about 24 hours because we didn’t have enough money for tickets. “On the day we left Lagos, it was not a good experience. I was so desperate to make sure that he got out of Nigeria that day considering his condition of health. Majek himself did not know where he was. I had to cover him and I was crying. Carrying him in and taking him to the loo several times was not easy. Singer Waje was in the plan, but some people did not know he was Majek.” “When we got to Dubai, he could not walk or eat for three days and was crying. No help. The Uber we took had to stop on the way. That was where the ambulance came to pick us up. We also had problem with accommodation. The agency that made arrangement for us started having problems with the owner of the apartment.” Omenka disclosed that when Majek’s case was becoming serious he got his permission to reach out to the public to raise fund. Continuing, he said: “We had donors, but not many responses yet. I had to start calling on people individually and that was how the news came and video got to the public. We really need funds. A lady sent money from Canada which I mentioned earlier. We appreciate all the love showed but we need financial support.” According to Omenka, St. Nicolas Hospital in Lagos has been of great help to the singer noting that the hospital did not really charge the singer while he was receiving treatment in Lagos. “I want to say thank you to St Nicolas Hospital. They did not really charge us. We did the first operation there at the NTC, which was okay for a while and after some time, it returned. Source