To ensure peace and unity in the All Progressives Congress (APC), Rivers State chapter, a call has been made for expulsion from the party of the representative of Rivers Southeast Senatorial District in the 7th and 8th Senate, Magnus Abe. The call was made on Monday in Port Harcourt by a chieftain of APC in the Southsouth zone, Chief Eze Chukwuemeka Eze. The National Working Committee (NWC) of APC, led by a former Governor of Edo State, Comrade Adam’s Oshiomhole, last week set plans in motion for the conduct of fresh ward, local government and state congresses of the party in Rivers, between September 17 and 28, while also inaugurating the Isaac Ogbobula-led five-member caretaker committee of the party in Rivers state, in order to move to the next level. Last Thursday, Abe and his supporters, however, obtained an order from Rivers High Court, Port Harcourt, stopping the congresses and declared the caretaker committee as illegal. Efforts were made yesterday to get the senator’s reaction to the call for his expulsion from APC, through his Spokesperson, Parry Benson, but he declined to respond. Eze said: “The personal attacks on the National Chairman of APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, by Abe, is an attempt at destroying the party at the national level, after dismantling the APC’s structure in Rivers State. “Abe decided to turn the heat on the NWC of APC, even while continuing to make moves to ensure the party in Rivers State never gets out of the incapacitation he foisted on it. “The sin of Comrade Oshiomhole and why he must be destroyed and ridiculed is the resolve of the NWC of APC to restore sanity and unity to the Rivers State APC, by setting up a caretaker committee that will conduct the congresses. “Abe is on a mission to destroy APC in Rivers State and to dismantle the party at the national level. The continued presence of the former senator and his followers in the party is dangerous. It is left to the national leadership of the party to do the needful by expelling Abe, in order not to weaken APC ahead of the 2023 general elections.” The APC chieftain also stated that he was glad that the Chairman of Abe’s faction of the party in Rivers, Chief Peter Odike, had abandoned the senator and returned to the mainstream APC, led by Transportation Minister, Rotimi Amaechi. He also congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari on his tribunal victory, while calling on all Nigerians to continue to support the focused administration. Eze asked the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, to ignore the enemies of democracy, who were urging him to challenge the tribunal’s judgment at the Supreme Court, while declaring that nothing would come out of the appeal and that the former Vice-President would end up wasting his money, time and energy. The Nation