By Hussaina yakubu Kaduna – The Kaduna State Peace Commission has emphasised the need for government at all levels to prioritize environmental issues in order to attain carbon neutrality by 2050. Priscilla Ankut, Vice Chairperson of the Commission, made the call at a public lecture in Kaduna to mark the World Peace Day in partnership with Development and Peace Initiative(DPI). The theme of the lecture was “Climate Action for Peace” Ankut noted that climate change causes clear threats to international peace, security and natural disasters, ”as it displaces three times as many people as conflicts, forcing millions to flee their homes and seek safety elsewhere.” She explained that this year’s theme drew attention to the importance of combating climate change as a way to protect and promote peace throughout the world. “The United Nations have foreseen that it would not be possible to build a peaceful world if steps were not taken to achieve economic and social development for all people everywhere, and also ensure that their rights were protected”. She stressed the need for peaceful co-existence in the society, saying, peace was a precious commodity and a resource sought after by people and communities around the world. “Nigeria has, regretfully, being on the spotlight in recent years as no day passes without the mentioning of one crisis or the other, and the quest to settle differences. ”Also, billions of dollars are being expended in the same quest to find lasting and sustainable peace”. Ankut said these crises are caused by human emotions, some as a result of differences, while others as a result of natural disasters. According to her, Kaduna and some other states across the country have experienced one form of crisis or the other, thus prompting governments to invest heavily in conflict resolution, prevention and mitigation as well as peacemaking. “With the catalogue of differences, conflicts and response to natural calamity such as climate change phenomenon and the resultant toll on our people, peacemaking and conflictprevention have become necessary in view of present realities in the country”. she said. She added that to sustain peace across the State, the Commission has collaborated with CBOS, NGOS, religious and community leaders, stakeholders in peacemaking efforts as well as peace ambassadors. Ankut said volunteers and traditional rulers were also part of the collaboration to ensure peace is enjoyed in Kaduna state. Also speaking, Rev. Joshua Yima, Director Development and Peace Initiative, called on government to promote climate action for the betterment of Nigerians. He stressed the need for the provision of dustbins and incinerators by government while the people should be enlightened on the need to channel waste products properly. The director also called on government at all levels to tackle the menace of climate change, stressing that, there was environmental degradation and dumping of waste everywhere, which have adverse effects on the people. Yima said, nature do not negotiate, hence, it gives back in return what it receives. “In the past, the earth was all green but today, the environment is no longer the same, there is need for reflection on the past and bring up ideas that will affect the society positively.” (NAN)