Gang Leader of Kidnappers and Serial Killers in Benue, Iorwuese Ikpila has admitted that they engaged in killing to meet the target of their spiritual Queen Mother so as to gain more spiritual powers. Recall that about 11 dead bodies were exhumed last Wednesday, when Police discovered about 16 shallow graves in Ushongo Local government area of Benue State. Iorwuese Ikpila, alias ‘Dr. Kwagh a korum Me Nenge‘, confessed while answering questions from journalists just as he was paraded together with 5 of his gang members amongst other criminals by the Benue State Police Command in Makurdi on Friday. He confessed that they were initiated to scoop blood from fresh boys for their queen mother. The kidnap gang leader who explained that he has been into the crime for about 3 months now said he has a target of 20 persons to kill so as to acquire all the powers he wanted. He confirmed that he has so far killed and buried sixteen. “I have been into this for three months. Queen gave us target to kill 20. That if we kill 20 she will give us what we want. We needed more powers. We needed power to acquire anything we want. I have killed a total of 16 persons. After we kidnap them, we will collect all the items they have and one of us who is connected to the buyers will sell it. So after we kill them we collect the blood for our queen.
“We use a rope to kill them and because they are young boys and our experience is more than them so anything we ask them to do, they do it for us. If I touch the rope, even if I am not around my gang will do it. There was a time I left my home in Zaki-biam, I was not with them but they killed on my behalf. When we kill them, we dig a grave and bury them. “My father was a native doctor. So we were initiated by our Queen. She is working with many spirits. So from there, I and my people when we kidnap people we kill them and my Queen takes the blood. That is what we are doing because we are working in the spiritual world, so what ever came to our mind, that is what we do. My Queen is not an ordinary person that her name can be mentioned,” Ikpila explained.
The gang leader who expressed regret for his evil deeds said, “nothing pass God, I confessed my sins to the police man that arrested me before he took me away. He even took me to a pastor in Katsina-ala and I confessed my sins before I took him to the place that I buried them” the gang leader confessed. Parading the Kidnap and serial killers amongst other criminals, Commissioner of Police, Benue State Command, Mukkadas Garba said about 40 persons were arrested recently in connection with
armed robbery and kidnap cases in the State. The CP said the command recovered twenty-one (21) arms, fourteen (14) live ammunition, twelve (12) cartridges, and charged eight (8) kidnap and robbery cases to Court for prosecution. On arrest of the killer gang in Ushongo, Mukkaddas explained that, “Intelligence was gathered that a kidnap and robbery gang operates within Ushongo Local Government Area of Benue State. Upon receipt of this information, a crack squad was deployed to the area for investigation. “On 21/09/2019 at about 1630hrs, the gang leader, one Iorwuese Ikpila, and five (5) other suspects all ‘m” of Mbagwaza council ward, Ushongo were arrested in connection with the case. During interrogation, the suspects confessed that they have been armed robbers operating within zone in Ukum, Kwande, Kastina-Ala and Ushongo Local Government Areas, who opted for kidnapping as a result of tight deployment of security operatives on the high ways. They specified that the gang kidnapped sixteen (16) persons, robbed them of their vehicles, motorcycles and other belongings, killed their victims, buried the corpses and planted cassava on the graves as a way of covering the crime. “Further investigation led to the discovery of sixteen (16) shallow graves. Eleven (11) corpses have been exhumed and identified by their family members. A receiver of the properties stolen by this gang; one Shizoon Nyityo ‘m’ of Zaki-Biam has also been arrested. Items recovered from the suspects include; one (1) locally made single barrel gun, a rope used by the gang members to strangulate their victims and assorted charms. Investigation is still in progress.” The command also paraded one Stephen Ortwer who conspired and kidnapped one Tersue Mduega ‘m’ 7years, Teryima Mduega ‘m’ 4yrs and Mhen Mduega ‘f’ 1yr to Abakaliki, Ebonyi State; allegedly for ritual purpose. The Police also paraded one Pius Samuel Oga, Kor Tarfa, Agu Titus, and Fidelis Eric at two different points for alleged cult and armed robbery activities. Mukkaddas appreciated the Benue public for always guaranteeing information to the police and sued for sustained cooperation. Meanwhile, governor Samuel Ortom speaking to newsmen in Ushongo shortly after he visited the shallow grave yards, condemned the horror, adding that their arrest indicates that criminality will no longer be tolerated in the State. “Seven have been arrested so far. Four are still at a large. We will get to the root of kidnapping in the State. They will be fished out to face the law. All kidnappers in flash points local government areas including, Vandeikya, Logo, Ukum, Kwande and Katsina-Ala will be apprehended. “It is time up for criminality to thrive in the State. Imagine that some persons have been missing for more than three (3) years and in some instances, ransom was paid by their relatives yet they were murdered by these persons whose motives is to make quick money. Not even the best lawyer in the country can save them now. I urge Benue indigenes to give information to security agencies to eliminate this”, Ortom appealed. Source