By Deji Abdulwahab Abuja – The All Progressives Congress (APC) has inaugurated a five-member executive caretaker committee to rebuild political structures for the party’s chapter in Rivers. The National Chairman of the party, Mr Adams Oshiomhole, said this on Monday while performing the inauguration in Abuja. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the committee is chaired by Mr Isaac Ogbobula and Mr Baridon Badom (Secretary). Other members are Mr Friday Kinika Owhor, Mrs Beatrice Amobi and Prince Abolo Stephen. Oshiomhole recalled that the Supreme Court nullified all party’s congresses in Rivers which led the party not having formal structure in the state. “As a consequence of the Supreme Court ruling, the National Working Committee of the party has decided that it is time we start the process of rebuilding the party in Rivers. ”But we cannot rebuild the party from outside or reconstruct the organs of party from outside. “We necessarily needs a state based organ to be able to assist those who will carry out out the conduct of the ward,  local government and the state congresses which will last a period of about two weeks,” he said. According to him, the committee should build Rivers APC chapter that is based on popular participation because politics is about people. “You have a very simple task but also a very complicated one. You are assuming office as caretaker committee members at time when we have huge internal fighting within the APC. “Your first task must necessarily include building bridges across all the divides within the APC family in Rivers. “We will also look at possibility of sending some high level mediation to ensure  all the forces within the party in the state see the need to work together. “So that by the time we are set to conduct the congresses it will be seen as very simple, transparent, family affairs with the tradition of APC,” Oshiomhole said. Responding, Ogbobula, who thanked the party’s leadership for giving the committee to serve the party, said that the committee would discharge its responsibility in a transparent and fair manner. (NAN)