•Wife of Ekiti State governor, Mrs Bisi Fayemi By Ernest Nwokolo, Abeokuta The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) on Wednesday condemned in strong terms, the alleged killing of two students of Federal University, Oye Ekiti, and injuring of others by security details attached to Chief (Mrs) Bisi Fayemi; wife of Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi. The students – Dada Kehinde Abiodun, a part one student at the Department of Crop Science and Horticulture and another were allegedly shot dead during protest on Tuesday by security personnel suspected to be in the convoy of Bisi Fayemi. In a statement in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, by Azeez Adeyemi; the National Public Relations Officer, NANS, he stated that sorrow engulfed Ekiti state on Tuesday when the wife of the Governor (allegedly) directed her security personnel to maltreat students for protesting against her husband’s alleged anti people’s government. Azeez wondered what the Governor’s wife expected the students to do other than protest against a second time governor that could not address the electricity challenges in Oye Ekiti, a bustling town in Ekiti State. The NANS image-maker stated that trouble started when the protesting students sighted the wife and of the Governor and wanted to explain their reason for the protest to her, but one of her security personnel slapped the Students Union President in the process. Azeez added this touched off the anger of the students who then pelted Bisi Fayemi’s convoy with sachet waters, an action, he claimed further, impelled the Governor’s wife to allegedly order her security aides to be ruthless with the students. He stated: “A student, Dada Kehinde Abiodun, a Part 1 student of the Department of Crop Science and Horticulture was killed while some others were severely injured and are receiving treatment at the Federal Medical Centre. “One of the students placed under intensive care has also given up the ghost during the early hours of today. “Meanwhile, so as to distort the truth before it gets to the public domain, the government quickly rushed to the press and fed them with lies all because they are in possession of the financial capacity to do and undo. “It is, however, important to note that although we do not have the financial muzzle to contend with you in the media, we shall explore every lawful means to communicate the anti-students attitude of Mrs Fayemi to the world. “To this end, we have however declared the wife of Governor Fayemi a persona non grata anywhere 50 meters of any university campus, as we request her to always keep 50 meters away from all our campuses in the country as she constitutes threat to the lives of our students. “We are not ignorant of the move of the government to kidnap our comrades when sighted anywhere in the state. “As a result of this unholy plot by the Ekiti state government, we would protest her wicked act in at least one state from each of the geo -political zones of the country, with effect from Monday 16, September, 2019. “We however appealed to mothers and other international communities to join force with us to condemn this inhuman act.” (The Nation)