By Hussaina Yakubu Kaduna – The Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) says it is seeking partnership with the Kaduna State government to deliver quality healthcare in the state and build its economy. The PSN President, Mr Sam Ohuabunwa, made this known when he led a delegation of the society on a courtesy visit to Gov. Nasir El-Rufai on Friday, in Kaduna. He said that the visit was to inform the governor of the 92nd edition of the society’s national conference, tagged “Crocodile City 2019”, which would hold on Nov. 4, in Kaduna. The national president, who was represented by the immediate past President, Yaro Budah, explained that the conference was the biggest, if not the most important event, in the society’s yearly calendar. Ohuabunwa stated that the choice of Kaduna for the conference was due to the progressive style of the governor. He added it was a way of demonstrating to the world that the state was safe and open for business, despite the reported security and communal challenges, which, he said, were limited mostly to the outskirts of the state. According to him, the society has been a strong advocate of value added services that pharmacists and pharmacy have brought into healthcare and national development. He added that the professionals played important roles in improving access to healthcare and closed the gap between the potential benefits of medicines and the actual realisable value. “It is, therefore, of utmost importance to inform government in advance about our plans, aspirations and expectations on the national conference, which will feature over 3,000 pharmacists, pharmaceutical scientists, doctors, nurses and other care-providers from all the states and Abuja,” he said. Ohuabunwa also noted that the conference would bring together over 250 manufacturers, importers and other potential investors, especially in the pharmaceutical sector, from countries like USA, Asia and Latin America, amongst others. Responding, Gov. Nasir el-Rufai assured the PSN of government’s support towards the upcoming conference in the state. The governor assured the society that the event would be one of the most successful conferences, especially with their choice of Kaduna as the venue. He thanked the PSN for the courageous decision to come to Kaduna for the conference, expressing the hope that many more of such conferences would hold in the state in the years ahead. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that PSN, which is the umbrella body for all licensed and registered pharmacists in Nigeria, was established in 1927. (NAN)