The Vice-chancellor of Osun State University, Prof. Labode Popoola on Thursday disclosed that the university would confer first degrees on a total of 1814 graduands during its 8th convocation ceremony for 2019. He added that out of the total number of graduands, 49 made first-class honour division, which represents 2.7% of the aggregate number, while 670 made second class upper, 892 came out with second class lower division, as 192 and 9 graduands bagged third class and pass respectively. Popoola, however, averred that the school, through the establishment of Global Affairs and Sustainable Development Institute (GASDI) would be a veritable instrument to address issues of sustainable development in a more unique, and creative ways across Africa. The VC stated this during a press conference held in Osogbo, the Osun State capital to herald the convocation ceremony and conferment of awards and honorary degrees. “Gentlemen of the press, we are working assiduously to fulfill our mission of creating a unique institution, committed to the pursuit of academic innovation, skilled-based training and a tradition of excellence in teaching, research and community service. “We have over the last one year deployed series of success-driven techniques that have continued to yield positive results as evident in our numerous achievements. “Part of our success stories that have dominated the news in recent times is the establishment of the Global Affairs and Sustainable Development Institute (GASDI), which was approved by the Senate of Osun State University in October, 2018 with a mandate to address issues of sustainable development in unique, creative and efficient ways that can fast-track the attainment of SDGs. “I am glad to tell you now that the institute is now becoming a centre of excellence in postgraduate teaching, research, and societal development in all areas of sustainable development. “We have continued to build the capacity of our staff through local and international training. It may interest you to know that in the course of the session, about 150 members of staff were funded to attend conferences, workshops and courses “, Popoola said. Source