By Martins Odeh Abuja – The Anti-Corruption and Research Based Initiative (ARDI) has described the commitment of the Federal Ministry of Justice to promote digital evidence and electronic law practice as “laudable’’. Chief Dennise Aghanya, Executive Secretary of the organisation said this on Friday in a statement in Abuja. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that ARDI has been involved in investigations on the strength of the whistle-blower policy of president Muhammadu Buhari anti-corruption fight. The outfit was responsible for the investigation that led to the sacking of the former Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen. Aghanya expressed delight in the ingenuity so far displayed by the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF), Mr Abubakar Malami, SAN,  in assisting prosecution agencies to conduct seamless investigations of criminal corruption allegations in the country. He also explained that Malami, also the Minister of Justice must be commended specially for giving listening ears for innovations on digital evidence exploration and electronic law practice, adding such practice would speed up trials in courts. Aghanya further said that the AGF had always showed flexibility for continuous reform in the justice sector. “The justice ministry under Malami has continued to encourage whistle-blowers, non-governmental organisations with bias for criminal investigations and private legal practitioners to chat new and workable templates to assist the legal sector. NAN reports that in line with the minister’ support for innovation in the sector, on Thursday received a book published by Mr Emeka Arinze titled “Digital Evidence and eDiscovery Law Practice’’. Aghanya explained that the attention given to the author of the book was one of such demonstrations of Malami’s determination to introduce innovations that would strengthen the process of investigation and evidence that could lead to successes in prosecutions. “The administration should not to be deterred in its efforts to keep bringing in innovations that would strengthen our judicial system to live behind legacies that will serve as ideal foundation for our future. “We also thank the author of the book “Digital Evidence and eDiscovery Law Practice’, Barrister Emeka Arinze for this landmark contribution designed to improve the quality of our legal system.’’ Aghanya said. (NAN)