By Augustine Ehikioya Abuja (Sundiata Post) – President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday applauded the contributions of Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and Aliko Dangote Foundation to humanitarian and developmental activities in Nigeria. Meeting with the duo at the sidelines of the 74th United Nations General Assembly in New York, the President said they have touched humanity in many positive ways, and congratulated them “for achieving what you had set out to do.” According to a statement by the Special Adviser
on Media and publicity, Chief Femi Adesina, the President added “Thanks for
deriving pleasure in helping people. Congratulations to you for returning part
of your wealth to the people in diverse ways. Whatever we save in areas in
which you have intervened, we can deploy to other areas like building of
infrastructure,” On agriculture, in which Alhaji Dangote makes
huge investments, the President noted that farmers were very happy in Nigeria
now, “as we have made fertilizer available, cut the price by half, and given
many other incentives. They have no regret going back to the lands. The more we
invest in agriculture, the better for us.” Mr Gates congratulated President Buhari “for
assembling a cabinet that excites us,” saying he was pleased that one of the
priorities of the administration was human capital development, of which
health, nutrition and education are key components. Noting that Bill and Melinda Gates and Aliko
Dangote Foundations keep track of Nigeria’s attainments on Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs), as enunciated by the United Nations, he submitted
that they were encouraged that there was improvement in reduction of child
mortality. “Every local government area has better
health/education situation today than in year 2000. We are delighted about
that. Nigeria is our biggest commitment in Africa. It’s only in India we do
more in the world,” Mr Gates said. On polio eradication, he said Nigeria reached a
zero wild polio virus free milestone for three years in August, noting that the
next six months were critical, so that the country could finally be declared
polio free. Alhaji Dangote appreciated the Nigerian
military for helping with vaccination in the theatres of war while fighting
insurgency, thus adding to the advances in the country’s polio status.