By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Int’l
Society for Civil Liberties & Rule of Law, (Intersociety) has faulted the  UN Chief’s End of Visit
Statement released in Abuja on 2nd Sept 2019 on the Extra
Judicial Killings of pro Biafra activists, alleging that there are obvious
missing points. The
group while commending the two –week fact-finding visit by the United Nations Special Rapporteur, however expressed
concern that he statistics as presented in the report, was acutely below
factuality and inconsistent with the realities on the ground. Intersociety made the submission on Monday in a
statement signed by  Obianuju Joy
Igboeli, Head of Civil Liberties & Rule of Law; Evangeline Chidinma
Udegbunam, Head of Campaign & Publicity Dept; Ndidiamaka Bernard, Head of
Int’l Justice & Human Rights and Emeka Umeagbalasi, a Criminologist &
Graduate of Security Studies and Board Chair of Intersociety, sent to
Sundiata Post. The
statement reads in full: The
recent two-week visit to Nigeria by the United Nations Special Rapporteur on
Extra Judicial, Arbitrary and Summary Killings or Executions, Dr Agnes
Callamard is commendable and deeply appreciated, but we are seriously concerned over some missing points found in the UN
Chief’s End of Visit Statement, released in Abuja on 2nd Sept
2019. The statistics as presented was acutely below factuality and inconsistent
with the realities on the ground. It is
totally reprehensible and immorally damning to misrepresent or under-represent
the numbers and names of the defenseless citizens or nationals killed or maimed
or traumatized outside the confines of universally standardized State or non-State
actor excuses or defenses. It amounts to setting fire on their cosmic world and
mocking and disrespecting the dead; particularly those violently sent to their
early graves by the atrocious State actors. Recognizing them in dead by their
names and numbers is one of the best ways of immortalizing them and reminding
the posterity that they once existed and paid supreme price for safety,
security and decency of human society. The
above was the position of Int’l Society for Civil Liberties & Rule
of Law, Intersociety, as contained in a statement signed by Lawyers
Obianuju Joy Igboeli, Head of Civil Liberties & Rule of Law, Evangeline
Chidinma Udegbunam, Head of Campaign & Publicity Dept, Ndidiamaka Bernard,
Head of Int’l Justice & Human Rights and Emeka Umeagbalasi, a Criminologist
& Graduate of Security Studies and Board Chair of Intersociety. Intersociety
States As Follows: That
Dr. Agnes Callamard’s visit to Nigeria in spite of all odds; was a courageous
and bold step and timely in the right direction. Her team’s findings as
contained in her End of Visit Statement are just a tip of the
iceberg compared to what is actually on the ground. That is to say two weeks
are not enough to unearth litanies of state actor and non-state actor
atrocities enveloping the country in industrial scale. That
it is recalled that Intersociety had during the UN Chief’s
visit made an oral presentation before her (Dr. Agnes Callamard) specifically
on Wednesday, 28th August 2019. The presentation bordered on
extra judicial, summary and arbitrary killings or executions; specifically on
the ‘Nigerian Military Massacre Operations In Eastern Nigeria: 30th August
2015-14th Sept 2017” and was backed up with some written
research reports and findings made by Intersociety. That
however, we felt deeply concerned over some missing points found in the UN
Chief’s End of Visit Statement, released on 2nd Sept
2019. We also rose in strong disagreement concerning the UN Chief’s statement,
implying that “the broad nature of the country’s legal provisions particularly
the existing 1999 Constitution have made it possible for the perpetrators to
exploit such loopholes or ouster clauses to kill and maim defenseless and
unarmed citizens at will and go scot free”. This is contained in Paragraph 57
of the referenced statement. That
we totally disagreed and still disagree with the UN Chief on this and make bold
to say that “Nigerian laws do not support killing and maiming of defenseless
and unarmed citizens including those in religious sanctuaries or those in
peaceful street protests or those in religious processions or those inside
perimeter fenced compounds singing and praying or those in their sleep, etc.
Concrete facts to support this are provided below. That
as it concerns the Arbitrary Killings of Members of the Indigenous
People of Biafra, contained in Paragraphs 47-52 of the UN
Chief’s End of Visit Statement, the statistics given with
respect to casualty figures were brutally under-represented. It must be pointed
out that our opinion on this and the correct position as it ought to be; have
since been transmitted to the UN’s Anti Extra Judicial Killings Chief, for
purpose of having them reflected correctly in her subsequent reports as well as
guiding her factually to take correct positions on the subject matter. 480
Deaths & 500 Injuries In All, Not “250”:  That
the UN Chief had in her statement said the following: “Between 2015 and
2016, it is alleged that law enforcement officials killed at least 100 IPOB
members in different events in Aba (Abia State) and, Awka and Onitsha (Anambra
State). On 29 and 30 May 2016, during a demonstration, the Nigerian military
opened fire on IPOB members and bystanders in Onitsha. At least 60 persons were
killed and over 70 injured, mainly shot in the back. The exact number of deaths
remains unknown. Between 12 and 14 September 2017, IPOB followers gathered at
the family home of their leader, Nnamdi Kanu, in Afara-Ukwu (Abia State) to
take part in a peaceful vigil. The military operation (as part of Python Dance
II) carried out in the afternoon of 14 September 2017 is alleged to have
resulted in the killing of 150 persons”. That
contrarily, by the account of AI Report, issued on 24th Nov
2016, ‘150 IPOB Members were killed and others injured’. The UN Chief said
“between 2015 and 2016, not less than 100 killed”. It must be noted that the
Amnesty International Report covered only 9th Feb 2016 killings
in Aba and 30th May 2016 massacre in Onitsha and Nkpor and did
not include 2015 killings (i.e. 2nd and 17th Dec
Onitsha killings), Asaba spillover killings of 30th May 2016,
the Pro Donald Trump Rally killings in Port Harcourt on 20th Jan
2017 and the Army Python Dance 11 massacre in Abia State on 12th, 13th and
14th Sept 2017. That
broadly, by the account of Intersociety research-investigations, covering 30th August
2015 (Onitsha, Awka, Port Harcourt, Yanagoa, Uyo and Asaba killings), 2nd and
17th Dec 2015 (Onitsha killings), 18th and 29th Jan,
and 9th Feb 2016 (Aba killings) and 29th and 30th May
2016 (Onitsha, Nkpor, Ogidi and Asaba massacre); a total of not less than 250
(including 25 added dark figures of crimes) IPOB activists, bystanders and
others were killed and 300 maimed. That
also between 20th Jan (pro Donald Trump rally killings) and 12th-14th Sept
2017 (Army Python Dance massacre in Abia State), not less than 200 (excluding
30 additional dark figures of crimes arising from injury-deaths) were killed
and 200 others maimed; which brings to not less than 480 killed and over 500
maimed or wounded in the entire killings and injuries between 30th August
2015 and 14th Sept 2017. That it is therefore
not correct for the respected UN Chief to have concluded that “the exact number
of death remains unknown” rather, it is likely correct to say that ‘independent
research sources (i.e. Nigeria’s Intersociety report) put the total deaths and
injuries in the shootings and killings to not less than 480 and 500, respectively’. Breakdown
Of The Casualty Figures (From Intersociety Report): That
not less thansix (6) deaths were recorded in the 30th of
August 2015 protests at Awka and Onitsha, nine (9) in the Uyo and Port Harcourt
mega protests of 30th August 2015, twenty-five (25) in the 2nd and
17th December 2015 protest and jubilation killings at Onitsha
Niger Bridgehead and environs. Others are: fifteen (15) in the 18th and 29th January
2016 killings in Aba, thirty (30) in the 9th February 2016 massacre
at Aba National High School, one hundred and ten (110) in the 29th and
30th May 2016 Biafra Heroes Day massacre at Nkpor, Ogidi and
Onitsha and thirty (30) in the Asaba spill over massacre of same 30th May
2016.  The rest are: twenty (20) in the 20th January
2017 pro Trump Rally in Igweocha or Port Harcourt, 180 in the 12th and
14th September 2017 Army Python Dance 11 massacre in Aba,
Asa-Ogwe, Isiala-Ngwa and Afara-Ukwu, all in Abia State; and sixty (60) deaths
arising from those who later died of injuries and associated complications
after being shot and critically injured by the military and the police,
totalling 485 deaths. That it is not only
that the Nigerian Government refused and failed to treat the wounded in the
killings, numbering over 500, but also dozens have died as a result of
untreated injuries with dozens more crippled for life. It was also documented
in the report how Nigerian security forces particularly Police SARS and Army
personnel invaded at late night and in broad day light the hospitals
and clinic treating the wounded, disrupted their treatments and abducted them
to unknown destinations, without traces till date.  The wives and
children of the victims have not only been abandoned by the Nigerian Government
to wallow in abject poverty and deprived of education or access to same, but
also the Government has refused and failed to offer commensurate compensations
to the survivors including the wounded and nuclear family members of the slain. Number And Names Of
The Slain & The Injured Cited:  That
out of the not less than 480 death tolls cited, 110 names were
mentioned including 16 lifeless bodies dumped in two burrow pits along
Aba-Port Harcourt Road, Aba in February 2016 and four persons that later died
in Dec 2015 of gunshot wounds at a Hospital (names withheld) at Nkpor in
December. The remaining 370 names, in addition to said sixteen lifeless bodies
found in Aba-Port Harcourt Road burrow pits, constitute those killed and taken
away or buried or dumped in undisclosed secret graves or sites by soldiers,
police and other security personnel. The referenced number of the slain and the maimed was credibly
obtained from several sources including discreet hospital and mortuary sources,
eyewitnesses and survivors as well as some concerned security officials who
wish not to be named. Those pieces of credible information were obtained in the
course of our field trips, scene of crime visits and general
research-investigations, conducted between Dec 2015 and Dec 2018. It is
our firm belief that the names and number of those killed or wounded
will surge and be fully identified when the time is apt or
appropriate for the constitution of panels or judicial commissions
of enquiry by relevant government authorities or international
inquiries by concerned international bodies. A typical case in point was the setting up of Hon Justice G.C.M.
Onyiuke Tribunal of 1968 that looked into the Igbo pogrom of 1966, which later
found that “… between 45,000 and 50,000 civilians of former Eastern
Nigeria were killed in Northern Nigeria and other parts of Nigeria
from 29th May 1966 to December 1967; with estimated 1,627,743
(IDPs) Easterners fleeing back to Eastern Nigeria as a result of the
1966 pogrom.” Difference Between Amnesty Int’l & Intersociety
Reports: That the AI Report was narrower in coverage, space, time and
casualties; having covered the 9th Feb killings in Aba and 30th May
2016 massacre in Onitsha and Nkpor. On the other hand, the Intersociety Report
broadly covered phase one involving the 30th August 2015
(Onitsha, Awka, Port Harcourt, Yanagoa, Uyo and Asaba killings), 2nd and
17th Dec 2015 (Onitsha killings), 18th and 29th Jan,
and 9th Feb 2016 (Aba killings) and 29th and 30th May
2016 (Onitsha, Nkpor, Ogidi and Asaba massacre); and phase two involving the 20th Jan
2017 (pro Donald Trump rally killings in Port Harcourt) and the 12th-14th Sept
2017 (Army Python Dance massacre in Abia State). Locations Of The
Killings Including Seven Graveyards As Contained In Intersociety Report: That
we had in the course of our investigations identified the ten killing or
massacre locations as (a) Asaba (Delta State), (b) Onitsha (Anambra State), (c)
Nkpor/Ogidi (Anambra State), (d) Aba (Abia State), (e) Umuahia (Abia State),
(f) Isiala-Ngwa (Abia State),  (g) Asa-Ogwe (Abia State), (h) Port
Harcourt (Rivers State), (i) Uyo (Akwa Ibom State) and (j) Awka (Anambra
State). The seven significant graveyards or dumping sites identified
in the course of our investigations are (1) Asaba Swamps, (2) River Niger
(Onitsha), (3) Onitsha Military Cemetery, (4) Umuahia Forests, (5) Isiala-Ngwa
Forests, (6) Umu-Ura (Ogwe) Forest  and (7) Aba National High
School/Aba-Port Harcourt Road Burrow Pits. Local Laws Do Not Support The
Killings:  That contrary to Your Excellency’s position as contained in
Paragraph 57 of Your Excellency’s End of Visit Statement, local
laws led by the 1999 Constitution do not empower the security forces to open
fire and kill or wound unarmed and defenceless citizens in Nigeria including
those in religious sanctuaries, places of work or those in perimeter fenced
compounds signing and praying or those engaged in peaceful street protests.
From our monitoring and findings, the pro Biafra and Shiite Muslim street
protests and processions are the most peaceful and best organized in Nigeria;
yet the security forces open fire at close range, killing and wounding them in
their hundreds at each of such protests. That exceptions
provided in Section 33 of the Constitution in the context of use of force have
nothing whatsoever to do with shooting and killing those classified above. The
exceptions are strictly meant for violent criminals who are violent in the time
of their arrest or in custody (i.e. suspected armed robbers, kidnappers,
arsonists or murderers, etc). Others that fall into this category include
violent criminal entities such as armed opposition groups (i.e. Boko Haram and
Jihadist Fulani Herdsmen) or battlefield combatants in the circumstances of
internal conflict or insurrection. Totality of the above is also governed by
proportionality of force and military necessity. By Section 1 (3) of the
Constitution, any local legal provision or supplementary provision such as
Police Order 237 which is inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution
is instantly unconstitutional, null and void. By Section 315 of the same Constitution, such Laws of the
Federation and of the 36 States and their Supplementary Provisions or
Enactments are subject to and must be brought under the existing Constitution
of the country. Nigeria is also a Party to a litany of international rights
treaty laws, duly ratified and domesticated variously by the
country.  In all these, no derogation is allowed. In other words,
Nigeria is not an animal kingdom, but democratic country. Its leaders’
conduct-policies and conduct-actions as well as the provisions of its laws must
conform at all times with the international best practices under the UN System. That it
is also important to point out the following: By extrajudicial executions, they
are defined by international law as unlawful and deliberate killings carried
out by policing and other security agents including soldiers by order of a
government or with its complicity or acquiescence. That
by unlawful killings, they involve killings resulting from
excessive use of force by law enforcement officials, which violate right to
life guaranteed by Nigeria’s 1999 Constitution (S.33), the Int’l Covenant on
Civil & Political Rights (Article 6.1) and the African Charter on Human
& People’s Rights (Article 4), ratified and domesticated by Nigeria on 26th June
1983 (African Charter). That by summary
or arbitrary executions, they are executions in which
persons are accused of a crime or crimes and immediately killed without benefit
of a full and fair trial. That
by enforced disappearance(s), it is a situation where a person
or persons are arrested, detained, abducted or otherwise deprived of liberty by
the authorities or their agents, or people acting with their authorization,
support or acquiescence, but the authorities do not acknowledge this or conceal
the abducted persons’ fate or whereabouts, placing them outside the protection
of the law. These are stated in the UN Convention for the Protection of
All Persons from Enforced Disappearance, signed and ratified by Nigeria on 27th July
2009. That by torture, it
is any act by which severe pain or suffering, whether physical or
mental, is intentionally inflicted on a person for such purposes as obtaining
from him or a third person information or a confession, punishing him for an
act he or a third person has committed or is suspected of having committed, or
intimidating or coercing him or a third person, or for any reason based on
discrimination of any kind, when such pain or suffering is inflicted by or at
the instigation of or with the consent or acquiescence of a public official or
other person acting in an official capacity. That by
the provisions of international criminal and human rights laws as well as
Nigeria’s 1999 Constitution and its subsidiary criminal laws, a criminal is anybody that
has attained 18yrs of age and above who violates the criminal laws of a country
or a defined political territory such as Nigeria. Under such circumstances, the
accused is not a criminal and must not be treated so until he or she completely
goes through due processes of arrest, investigation, prosecution, fair trial,
conviction and sentencing. A child usually under the age of 12, who is in
conflict with the criminal law, is regarded by same as a delinquent and treated under juvenile
delinquency law. That in other words, any
citizen arrested by security forces including soldiers and taken into custody
and got killed by torture or starvation or any prejudicial or extrajudicial
means, clearly amounts to a victim of extrajudicial, arbitrary or summary
execution/killing and torture; while unarmed and defenseless citizens killed at
the scenes of religious processions, peaceful street
protests or rallies, picketing, meeting, night vigils, at sleep, workplaces,
etc; all amount to victims of unlawful killings and extrajudicial executions. That those
arrested or abducted and taken to undisclosed locations with their whereabouts
unknown to their families and lawyers are victims of enforced
disappearances. Under Nigeria’s 1999
Constitution, any person arrested and taken into police or security
custody including military custody
on accusation of crime of whatever gravity is presumed
innocent until found guilty by a court of competent
jurisdiction. This is contained in Section 36 (5) of the Constitution. That citizens
arrested and detained in policing or military custodies are also
exempted from torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or
punishment. This is contained in Section 34 (1) (a) of Nigeria’s
1999 Constitution, now
criminalized by the newly enacted anti Torture Act of 2017.  By
Section 1(1) and 1(3) of the Constitution, “Nigeria’s 1999 Constitution is
supreme and above any other law created or deemed to have been created by the
National Assembly of Nigeria or States’ Houses of Assembly”. That therefore, all forms of killings
and maiming contrary to or in gross breach of the above local and international
due processes and laws are technically or legally referred as extra jus (beyond the
law), extra-legal (beyond
what the written criminal law provides) and extrajudicial (beyond court or
judicial pronouncement or verdict). That that is to say that any
killing of unamed or defenseless human being, rightly or wrongly accused of
being in conflict with criminal law, by a State actor or official security
operative, official or officer of the law without the completeness of such
unarmed slain citizen being subjected, before his or her killing, to the
processes of arrest,
investigation, prosecution, fair trial, conviction and sentencing by a criminal
court of competent jurisdiction inexcusably amounts to extra jus, extra-legal and
extrajudicial killing. That by
Section 36 (8) of Nigeria’s 1999 Constitution, nobody shall be held to be
guilty of a criminal offence if such act or omission did not constitute a
criminal offence as at the time of his or her arrest and detention and no
penalty heavier than that in force as at the time the alleged offence was
committed shall be imposed on him or her. By Section 36 (12) of the
Constitution, nobody shall be convicted of a criminal offence if the
act or omission is not defined and the penalty, therefore, is prescribed
in written law. That by
Section 35 (4) (a) of the same Constitution, nobody shall be arrested and
detained for more than 60 days without trial or court bail in the case of any
citizen or citizens credibly and circumstantially accused of committing capital
offence such as in the offences of armed robbery or abduction or murder or rape
or terrorism or terrorism financing or treason or treasonable felony; or
24hrs/48hrs in the case of any citizen or citizens accused of non capital and
leniently bailable offenses. That by
Nigeria’s criminal laws and the Constitution, too, omission to act when the law
so requires him or her to do so is a criminal offence; likewise aiding and
abetting of crimes by public office holders. Put in place in Nigeria too,
are the trio of code of conduct for personnel and officers of the
Nigeria Police Force (for purpose of checkmating police corruption and
brutality or rights abuses in the course of their official duties), the code
of conduct and the rules of engagement for personnel and officers of the
Nigerian Army, Air Force, Navy and SSS or all members of the Nigerian
Armed Forces; principally designed to checkmate perpetration of human rights
abuses and violations in the conduct of their official duties. That therefore, we in
summation make bold to say that the massacre of members of the Indigenous
People of Biafra, bystanders and those in their places of work and religious
sanctuaries, etc all amounted to crimes against humanity because there was no
armed resistance or armed opposition group in the area affected by the military
massacre. Which explains why there was no single loss of a soldier; yet
hundreds were massacred and hundreds maimed. That the massacre was
also perpetrated outside the existing local laws (Constitution and its
auxiliaries), regional (i.e. African Rights Charter) and international (i.e.
ICCPR & ICESCR) laws, etc. None of the perpetrators, till date, has been
brought or made to account for atrocities perpetrated. That is to say that
whatever defense put up by the present Government of Nigeria as per the
massacre is dead on arrival as it was perpetrated beyond excuses and defenses
known to the local Constitution and international best practices. That there also have
been several cases of disappearances, incommunicado detentions, trumped-up
charges, psycho-physical torture and other degrading treatments and long
detentions without trial. Criminal cases filed in courts by the Federal
Government against the arrested and long detained victims have been riddled
with discontinuances or discontinuations, withdrawals and dismissals, etc, all
for lack of evidence, diligent investigation and prosecution; to the extent
that Government of Nigeria has not secured a single conviction against any of
the vindictively arrested and accused victims since August 2015. Use Of Terror Tag For Purpose
Of Evading Local & Int’l Justice:  That the
Nigerian authorities apart from failing the litmus test of the int’l
law’s principle of complimentarity and no impunity orinability
and unwillingness to fish out and punish the perpetrators using the
instrumentalities of the country’s municipal lawshave also
come up with reckless use of ‘terror tag’ against unarmed civil entities that
have their unarmed and defenseless members including women and children (i.e.
members of IPOB, IMN and innocent others) massacred or maimed in their
thousands by the country’s security forces led by the Nigerian Army. That specifically, the
Nigerian Defense Headquarters had on 15th Sept 2017 after
receiving the intelligence reports that its soldiers had massacred many (later
found to be over 180) unarmed and defenseless citizens in Abia State in
execution of its ‘Operation Python Dance 11’, caused steps to be taken
apparently to retroactively justify the massacre and escape or evade local and
int’l justice by designating ‘IPOB’ as a ‘terror organization’ and on Sunday,
17th Sept 2017, President Muhammadu Buhari issued a
proclamation tagging ‘IPOB’ a terrorist organization. This was followed by a
retroactive ex parte court order issued by the now retired Justice Abdul
Kafarati, then Acting Chief Judge of the Federal High Court in Nigeria. The
court order ex parte was made on Wednesday, 20th Sept 2017. Two years later, the
same Federal Government of Nigeria on Friday, 26th July 2019
approached an Abuja Division of the Federal High Court presided over by Justice
Nkeonye Maha. The ex parte application was made via Suit No: FHC/ABJ/CS/876/2019, urging
the Court to proscribe ‘IMN’ or ‘Islamic Movement in Nigeria’ and declare same
as ‘terrorist organization’. The Judge granted the application as unilaterally
canvassed. Days later, the Nigerian Government pronounced Shiite Muslims as “terror
group” and banned same; with consequent crackdown on their members including
death in police custody of three of their bullet-injured members and invasion
of hospitals treating the wounded and their abduction to unknown destinations,
etc.