…Urges National Assembly to Summon Emergency Session By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has condemned the killing of innocent Nigerians and other nationals in the mindless violent xenophobic attacks in South Africa. The PDP is particularly heartbroken by the insensitivity of the Muhammadu Buhari Presidency in failing to protect Nigerians in the face of unwarranted violent attacks by xenophobic South Africans. The party expressed displeasure on Tuesday in a statement signed by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan sent to Sundiata Post. According to the statement, the party is extremely shocked by allegations that officials of the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led administration at the Nigerian Embassy in South Africa, locked the gates against our compatriots in the face of bloody attacks, leaving them to the cruelty of their assailants. “The PDP holds such scenario as condemnable, inexcusable, completely unpardonable, adding that it can only come from a government that does not derive from the people and as such cannot protect their interests. “Such insensitivity by the Buhari Presidency to issues of safety, welfare and rights of Nigerians living abroad has continued to embolden acts of violence, violations and killing of our citizens in foreign lands. “Nigerians are utterly appalled by the disparagement and abandonment of our citizens by the Buhari administration. “Indeed, our citizens have totally lost hope of any forceful intervention by the Buhari Presidency, as it has not shown any commitment towards defending Nigerians in the face of unjust attacks, harassments and even murder both at home and abroad, PDP said. It continued, “Back home, the Buhari Presidency has also not demonstrated any capacity or commitment towards securing our nation, a situation that has emboldened insurgents, kidnappers, marauders and bandits in their mindless pillaging of our citizens in various parts of the country. The PDP therefore calls on members of the National Assembly, as the true representatives of the people, to come to the rescue, by cutting short their recess for an emergency session to forcefully address the plight of Nigerians in South Africa. The National Assembly is called upon to immediately engage the South African authorities for explanations on the attacks on our compatriots and seek options to address the situation in the interest of all. The PDP urged Nigerians to continue to assist and pray for the victims of the xenophobic attack as the National Assembly finds solution to this challenge. 