Kigali – Government officials from Rwanda and Uganda on Monday reiterated their commitment to implement the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed in August to cease hostilities between the two sides. President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda and his Rwandan counterpart, Paul Kagame, signed the MoU during a quadripartite summit which was also attended by the host, Angolan President, Joao Lourenco. Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) leader, Felix Tshisekedi, in Luanda also attended. “Rwanda is fully committed to the realisation of the provisions of the MoU. “We will not be found to be wanting,” Rwandan Minister of State in Charge of East African Affairs, Olivier Nduhungirehe, told the opening ceremony of the first meeting of the ad hoc commission of the MoU. He said the MoU is a major milestone toward resolving the issues affecting the two countries. He added that the two countries share strong historical friendly and brotherly ties as well as economic and social relations that are affected by the situation. Uganda Foreign Minister, Sam Kutesa, for his part, said Kampala “is committed to the implementation of the Luanda MoU and looks forward to working with Rwanda and the facilitators to resolve the outstanding issues as soon as possible.” “The historical ties between our two countries are interconnected. “I’m sure this meeting will come up with a tangible solution to issues currently affecting our relationship with Rwanda,’’ he said. DRC Deputy Prime Minister, Gilbert Malamba, said the DRC was advocating for a peaceful region and brotherly relationship among countries in the great lakes region and support Rwanda and Uganda to find a lasting solution to “frosty” relations affecting them. Malamba, who is also the country’s minister of interior, security and customary Affairs, said the DRC was committed to supporting Rwanda and Uganda in reconciliation for the benefit of regional stability. Angolan Foreign Minister, Manuel Augusto, another facilitator, said the meeting is a positive step toward the implementation of the agreement and is a sign of political will on both sides to put into action what was agreed in the MoU. He said the implementation of the MoU will be key in ensuring peace and stability in the great lakes region. Rwandan officials attending the meeting also included Minister of Justice, Johnston Busingye, Minister of Local Government, Anastase Shyaka, senior intelligence officials and its high commissioner to Uganda. Uganda’s minister for internal affairs, Jeje Odongo, Attorney General, William Byaruhanga, its high commissioner to Rwanda and an official from the office of the president also attended the meeting.