…Warns
Against Crossing Lines Of Demarcations By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Communication Minister, Dr Ibrahim Pantami on Monday inaugurated the new Board of the Nigerian Communication Commission (NCC), charging them to have no other agenda other than the agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari and to help ensure it’s fulfilled. Dr Pantami informed that President Buhari’s agenda is centered
on three broad areas of security, economy and fight against corruption and urged
the Board members to use their wealth of experience to come up with policies
that will improve the economy of the country and also reduce the level of
poverty. The Minister, who emphasized that President Muhammadu Buhari
wants to stamp out corruption, reminded the Board members that it is leadership
by example and that to support him to achieve this, they must make sure the
right thing is done as charity begins at home. “So try to be upright and
support Mr President n the fight against corruption, he said. Pantami who called for synergy said,  “We have no other agenda beside the agenda of
Mr. President that appointed us. We must consider ourselves as brothers and
work with synergy. We must respect one another and eachew the act that will
jeopardise the interest of the nation. Whenever we sit down to discuss, our agenda should be how to move the country forward because it is the president that appointed all of us. As a minister, whatever the Federal Government says is what I will do. Where I cannot, what I should do is to clear from the way and allow another to take over. Same way, all of you, whenever anyone feels that he cannot do what the FG says, such person should quietly clear from the way, there are thousand Nigerians looking for the opportunity. The minister who also warned against crossing lines of
demarcations between the ministry, board and management, stressed that the job
of the board is part time. While making clarifications on the responsibilities, Dr
Pantami said that while the main responsibility of the  ministry is to come up with with broad
policies and convey same to Board and Management for their information, the
Board looks at the policies and reduce them to specific actionable plan on how
to achieve them and convey to management for implementation. He maintained that the Board is superior to the management
and as such, baoard has rights to ask for clarification but not to go into day
to day running of the commission. It is the management that is responsible for
the day to day running of the commission, he said. He therefore congratulated the new board members and wished
them well in their endeavours as board members of NCC. The new board members are as follows: Senator Olabiyi Durojaiye 
(Chairman), Prof Umar Garba Danbatta (Executive Vice Chairman);  Engr. Ubale Maska (Commissioner); Engr. Ubale Maska, Executive Commissioner
Technical Services; Mr. Salman Abdulazeez Mahammed (Commissioner), Prof. Millionaire
Freeborn Aboiwe, ( Commissioner) Mr. Aliu Saidu Abubakar, (Commissioner) and Mr.
Clement Baiye (Commissioner). The Board Chairman, Senator Olabiyi Durojaiye in his remarks,
thanked the Minister and assured him of the support of the  members board members in the discharge odf
their duties. The oath of office was administered by the Head of legal of
the Commission.