By Muhammad Nasir BashirBuji (Jigawa) – The Nigeria Air Force (NAN) has taken its medical outreach to flood victims in Gantsa village, Buji Local Government Area of Jigawa. The News Agency of Nigerian (NAN) reports about 4,000 people were displaced by flood which damaged houses and sources of water which exposed victims to several diseases. NAF commenced the three-day exercise on Sept. 19 in the area, under the leadership of Grp. Capt. Ali Tanko. Tanko, who is the Director of Public Health and Humanitarian Services, NAF Headquarters, said the gesture was part of the NAF’s strategies to foster cordial relationship between the military and civilians. He assured that adequate plan was made to ensure everyone in the community benefited from the free medical service. The team leader added that cases of malaria, diarrhoea, hypertension and other diseases that might have occurred as a result of the flood are targeted in the exercise. “We are here after we heard the sad news about flood that ravaged this area and we are here to check victims’ health status and provide them medicines and other relief material. “No specific number of persons targeted, we’re targeting the whole community because we were here some days a go to know the exact diseases and number of people affected. “We came with doctors, nurses, laboratory scientists and pharmacists to take care of the victims. We also conducted minor surgeries, however, those with bigger cases will be referred to appropriate hospitals,” he said. The District Head of Buji, Alhaji Sabo Bello, commended the NAF and its team for the gesture. “This is very commendable as this is the first time we are seeing this gesture from any organisation, not even the military. “On behalf of the people of Buji we appreciate your effort in bringing health services to our doorstep, particularly when there is dire need of that as a result of flood that ravaged the area. “We also thank the state government for allowing you to come into the state, and Buji local government area in particular to assist our people medically,” Sabo said. In his vote of thanks, the Vice Chairman of the council, Alhaji Ahmad Zaburan, also commended the NAF for the gesture. “This is very commendable, why because officials we did not send for assistance to the NAF, they just heard about the flood over the media and decided to come and assist us. “We’re really happy as the gesture will really enable a lot of the victims to access qualitative healthcare,” Zaburan said. NAN reports that apart from the medical outreach, the NAF distributed relief items to the victims, including rice, sugar, indomie noodles, soap, garri, water and slippers. Two of the beneficiaries who spoke with NAN, Malam Musa Shuaibu and Hajiya Fatima Tasiu, commended the NAF for the gesture.