By
Collins Nnabuife Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Minister of
Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu has said that agricultural
biotechnology and Genetically Modified Organism has the potential to play a
very critical role in ensuring that the country produces enough food to feed
its citizens. The Minister while noting that agricultural biotechnology
would assist Nigeria in stopping the importation of basic food, he said the
newly developed and approved Bt Cotton varieties have the capability of
reviving the Moribund Nigerian textile industry. Dr Onu disclosed this at the opening ceremony
of the ICGB-NABDA-SCBD-NBMA Workshop on Basic Laboratory Training on Living
Modified Organisms (LMO) Detection and Identification. According to him, “Genetically Modified
Organism has a very important role to play in the search of our great nation to
be in a position to ensure that we can feed all our citizens and start the
process of producing many of the things that we now import from outside.” Speaking on the areas of interventions in
agriculture using technology, Dr Onu said “there are so many areas that require
interventions, you have to start with the seeds, we want to make sure that the
seeds used in the country are high yielding and they are disease resistant. “NABDA
is helping us in so many areas, if we talk about our cash crops, you can see
what happened to our textile industry because our cotton farmers had to leave
as a result of the ball worm that attack their farms, but the National
Biotechnology Development Agency (NABDA), have been able to come up with the BT
Cotton that is resistant to those worms. “Now, when we grow enough cotton, we will be in
a position to revive the textile industry. “We also need raw materials for our industries
and many of these raw materials come from the farm.” Commending NABDA, the Minister said, “I want to
assure you that the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology will continue to
support you to make sure that you carry out this very vital mandate given to
you by the nation to help our country not only in the area of agriculture, but
also protecting our environment in ensuring that the desire of our nation to
industrialize very rapidly is achieved, and I believe that through genetic
engineering and biotechnology, all these areas and even more can be achieved.” In his remarks, the Acting Director-General of
NABDA, Professor Alex Akpa said the interventions of the Agency led to the
commercialization of the Bt Cotton and the approval for release of the Bt
Cowpea. “NABDA is mandated to promote biotechnology
research, development and adoption in Nigeria. Hence, NABDA supports
initiatives that enhance the credibility and public trust in biotechnology
research and deployment. Our interventions are very strategic and have led to
resounding successes in Bt Cotton commercialization, approval for release of Bt
Cowpea and even more recently, massive production of yam seedling for the
Nigerian yam value chain. “The training workshop is in collaboration with
the International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB),
Trieste, Italy and the National Biotechnology Development Agency (NABDA). “Other major partners include the Secretariat
of the Convention on Biological Diversity (SCBD), Ontario, Canada and the
National Biosafety Management Agency (NBMA),” Professor Akpa added.