Alaba Olusola Owo (Ondo State) – Oba Ajibade Ogunoye, on Sunday, appeared in public for the first time as the 33rd Olowo of Owo during his coronation, after his installation on Aug. 23, according to the tradition of the ancient town. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the new Olowo was selected after securing votes of 14 out of 15 kingmakers on July 12. The selection of the new monarch followed the demise of the late Oba Victor Olateru-Olagbegi on April 18 at the age of 77. NAN also reports that the new Olowo, who wore beaded crown, was received with pomp and pageantry, laced with drumming and rendition of the Owo panegyrics. The ancient town wore a colourful look, as people from all walks of life trooped in to witness the historic coronation. NAN reports that Oba Ogunoye had been in seclusion for 17 days observing traditional rites, as prescribed by tradition. Speaking at the occasion, Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State said that it was a new dawn for the town. Akeredolu noted that the town did not make a mistake in the selection of the new monarch, saying that his selection was peaceful and without any rancour or strife from other contestants to the throne. The governor, who added that his administration would not interfere in any chieftaincy matter, promised that people’s will would always be allowed to prevail. While appreciating other co-contestants for accepting the new monarch, Akeredolu advised Oba Ogunoye to embrace all and sundry. He explained that he was not attending the event as governor but as an indigene of Owo, disclosing that he would present the staff of office to the new Olowo on December 14. Earlier, Chief Olarenwaju Famakinwa, the Ojumu of Owo kingdom, described the selection of the new king as epoch-making, saying that a general consensus birthed his emergence. “This is a development we cherish and hope to nurture and weave into the fabric of our society. “This commendable and rancour-free selection could not have occurred without the determination of our people to bring out the best out of the process,” he said. Famakinwa expressed appreciation for the roles played by the senior ‘omolowos’, major stakeholders and the governor. According to him, the new monarch has vision of transforming the town in all aspects.