By Fortune Abang Abuja – A non-governmental organisation, Next Level Movement for David Lyon, the Bayelsa APC governorship candidate, has expressed confidence that he can turn around fortunes of the state if elected governor of the state. Mr Tonbra Ekiotenne, Director General of the organisation, in statement on Tuesday in Abuja, declared the readiness to work closely with APC leaders in the state. Lyon recorded victory at the APC primaries winning with 42, 138 votes followed by former Police Commissioner Diseye Poweigha with 1, 533 votes. According to Ekiotenne, Lyon has the capacity and experience to reposition and facilitate infrastructure development of Bayelsa. Ekiotenne said: ”We as support group are set up to deploy social media tools in communicating the Next Level campaign agenda, economic policy and political activities of Lyon to achieve targets. “We resolve to provide Nigerians and Bayelsa in particular with credible information on the activities of the APC candidate in Nov. 16 election. “Our intention is to provide accurate information to achieve our aim; we have set up structures in the eight local government areas in Bayelsa with coordinators appointed for each. “Our target is to use social media to garner support in the rural areas and every part of the state to ensure an overwhelming and unprecedented victory for Lyon in the governorship election.” He said that the organisation had planned, strategised and carried out community campaigns since August for Lyon to win more voters confidence, bypass plethora of fake news to achieve desired goals. Ekiotenne further congratulated the former governor of the state, Mr Timipre Sylva, Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, Mr Godswill Akpabio and Mr Festus Keyamo on their political appointments. He, however, canvassed support from members of the organisation by urging them to embrace the cause for realisation of the Federal Government’s Next Level policies and programmes in the state. Lyon would face the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Sen. Douye Diri in the election. The Next Level Movement is an online support group designed to create awareness on the need for conduct of free and fair election to promote good governance. (NAN)