By Florence Onuegbu Lagos – The rate of open defecation and bad roads in the Oshodi-Isolo Constituency  1  are parts of the major concerns of the constituents, the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports. The constituents made these known on the sideline of the Annual Constituency Stakeholders’ Meeting organised by the Lagos State House of Assembly ( LAHA) on Wednesday. The theme of the meeting was, “Environmental Challenges: Community Engagement to Facilitate Lasting Solution.’’ Mr Remigius Ogoma, a constituent, told NAN that some parts of the area had been defaced by open defecation. Ogoma said that no doubt, the continuous inhaling of the defecation was gradually causing health issues to people. He called on the lawmaker representing the constituency to address the issue, as it was an environmental challenge. Mrs Sola Adedoyin, another constituent, said that many of the roads in and  around the constituency were in bad condition. Adedoyin said that the roads had been affecting their movements and businesses, hence, they were experiencing untold hardship. Mrs Fatima Emiabata called on the lawmaker to ensure that government should beef up security in the area. The legislator representing Oshodi-Isolo 1, Mr Sokunle Hakeem,  told NAN that the challenges faced by the constituents would be adequately dealt with. Hakeem said that such challenges were parts of the reasons for the stakeholders’ meeting. He said that the meeting was to promote legislators/constituents’ interaction and engaging constituents in the art of governance. According to him, the meeting is to ensure that the constituents’ input count in the affairs of the state. He said that the State Legislature took the welfare of its people as paramount and was diligent in its primary responsibilities. Hakeem said that the legislature had deliberated on the increasing and threatening environmental issues in the state including flooding, drainage-related matters and the need to proffer necessary solutions to them . He called on the constituents to collaborate with the state government to ensure a better Lagos for all. The lawmaker urged the constituents to obey the  state environmental law, so as not to frustrate government’s efforts and huge investment in the environment sector. “We want them to know that they should not dump their refuse on the roads, rainy season is not a time to dump refuse in the drainage systemsc, as this always  has a multiplier effect,’’ he said. (NAN)