…Says He’s eminently Qualified
to Be Speaker Both Academically and Legislative Experience By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Federal lawmaker representing
Chachanga Federal Constituency of Niger State, Hon Mohammed Umaru Bago has
described as mischief the call for open ballot in the election of the principal
officers of the 9th National Assembly. The leading contender in the speakership race, who dropped
the hint while fielding questions from newsmen, wondered why the same group did
not push for open ballot system for the general election. According to him, “If they are genuine in what they are
doing, you see we cannot continue to allow people abuse corporate names or
non-governmental organization to come under whatever guise and be causing
mischief. It is pure mischief. But you see, the question is “who is afraid of who
and why are you afraid?”  You see Mr ‘A’
has every qualification and pedigree, you have the numbers and you are already
shaking. You are telling people you want to coarse the institution of the
parliament to change their rules overnight? These things are not ok and should
not happen. He therefore called on his colleagues not to be intimidated
but to follow their heart as nobody is going to do any open ballot. “ I want to reassure our colleagues honourable members-elect
that they should not be intimidated, they should follow their heart. They know
where to go. Nobody is going to be there to record you, nobody will see your
ballot paper nobody is going to do any open ballot voting – all these things
are gimmicks. Hon Bago who used the interactive session to debunk
insinuations in some quarters that he has withdrawn from the race for the
speakership. In his words, “The developing
story is that I have withdrawn from the race. This is not true. I am in the
race and I am going to go to the floor of the day of election and Insha Allah,
I will come out victorious. He stressed that the issues which bothers on “Equity and
justice” which  they are calling for has
not addressed and as such assured his supporters that he will not rest on his
oars. “Because the issues that we are calling for has not been
addressed which is justice and equity. All men and women of faith have
continued to encourage us to continue on this journey and we are not going to
rest on our oars because we have our colleagues behind us and by the grace of
God just the 360 of us would be on the hallowed chamber on that day to elect
one of us.” Commenting on the issue of loyalty question to the party, Hon
Bago has this to say: “When people talk about loyalty to the party, I keep laughing
and I ask, can there be any other person more loyal to the party than we
are?  We have come with President
Muhammadu Buhari right from the time of TBO (The Buhari Organization) to
Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) to merger to APC and now next level. So
our pedigree, record and CV is too much for us to throw away at this time. “We are very loyal to the party and we are core Buharist and
I have said this severally. The president in his wisdom long time ago told us
to stand on the party of justice, fairness and equity for whatever is worth is
worth it. So we are only disciples of a leader who thought us how to do things
rightly. He reminded that he is qualified in all standard to be the
speaker of the 9th National Assembly both academically and
legislative experience. “I think I am very competence and qualified. Are you talking
about academic qualification or legislative experience, I am very competent.
All these questions I have answered and I would continue to answer them. My CV,
my profile is open   for anybody to
confirm or to doubt. We will do this job very well by the Grace of God we are
relatable. My colleagues and I have formed a relationship that is beyond the
parliament and this relationship that is beyond the parliament is what is
propelling us to continue on this journey, Hon Bago said. On the level on support he is getting from his colleagues
from the north central and the party, Hon Bago denied allegation that his
colleagues back home has disowned him but clarified that “all that the chairman
said is that they want to toe in the direction of the party, which is very
okay. That is to toe in the direction of the party. However he added that what
needs to be understood is that it is 360 members that have to be at the
hallowed chamber to elect our leader.