By Martins Abochol Yola – The Adamawa Chapter of the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT) on Monday disbursed cheques worth N7 million to 78 retired teachers. Presenting the cheques in Yola, Mr Rodney Nathan, Chairman of the
union, urged beneficiaries to invest the funds in profitable ventures. Nathan also advised next-of-kin to the deceased families to be fair to them. He assured that the union would clear all back-log of beneficiaries who were due for the payment in the coming month. The labour leader also promised to review the contribution of
Teachers Welfare Scheme (TWC) from the current N500 to any amount that
the union would agree on. According to him, such will go a long way in boosting savings capacity of teachers. Nathan said that beneficiaries were in three categories namely;
retired members, dismissed teachers and those who transferred their
services. He also promised to collaborate with relevant stakeholders in the
education sector to address some challenges faced by teachers in the
state. Nathan sought for prayers and support for the incoming administration
in the state to be able to fulfill its campaign promises, especially on
payment of pensions and gratuities to retired teachers. According to him, the union is poised to support whosoever that is elected to pilot the affairs of the state. Some of the beneficiaries who spoke at the event commended the leadership of the union for the disbursement. Mr Bello Aliyu, however, urged the union to review upwardly the current contribution to the scheme. Mr Nicholas Jingoma, another beneficiary urged the union to ensure members were not undermined and denied their rights. Jingoma recalled how he was denied promotion after he upgraded his
certificate to a first degree on account of non authorisation by the
board for an in-service programme. NAN recalls that the union had also in March disbursed the same amount to 78 beneficiaries. NAN also recalls that the money is the proceeds of teachers’
contributions to TWS through monthly salary deductions from teachers.