The Federal University of Abuja held its 34th inaugural lecture on 28th March. The prestigious lecture attended by respected dignitaries was delivered by renowned Professor Isaac Nnamdi Obasi of the department of Public Administration. Speaking on the topic, ‘’Public
Policy in the Management of Industrial Relations,’’ Prof. Obasi said that the
study of industrial relations can be justified on academic,
practical/professional grounds, as well as on grounds of wider benefits to
society. On the dynamics of ASUU – Federal
Government Relations, he said that during the first quarter of a century (1978 –
2003) of ASUU’s existence, there was hardly any academic session in the history
of the Nigerian university system that did not experience either a major or
minor disruption of the academic calendar as a result of a national or local
(branch) strike action by academics, or one form of protests and demonstrations
by students. ‘’In a study on ASUU Government
Conflict in Nigeria, Obasi (1991) revealed that the root of the numerous ASUU strikes,
lay beyond their widely believed causes. Generally, the frequent strikes were
usually attributed to four causes namely the underfunding of universities, the
erosion of university autonomy and academic freedom, poor conditions of
service, and lastly poor physical conditions of work (decaying infrastructure).
But according to Obasi, these causes were mere superficies or manifestations of
a deep rooted fundamental problem that lay in the structure and character of Nigeria’s
political economy. And this fundamental problem he argued is the mismanagement
of the political economy by the ruling class as represented by corrupt
successive federal governments. ASUU leadership attributed this mismanagement
to the nature of the prevailing capitalist social order which it strongly
reprobated and constantly challenged for its exploitative and oppressive
character. On the strength of the evidence then, Obasi concluded that that the
resolution of ASUU – Government conflict was intractable and would continue to
remain so because of the asymmetric and structure-oriented character of the
conflict,’’ he said. Since most successive governments
in Nigeria have been largely conservative, his recommendation is that public
policy in wage fixing should reflect among other things a progressive outlook
than the present reactionary conservative outlook that has kept the working
class struggling with starvation wages. The Nigeria workers, he said, needs a
decent wage in a decent work environment in line with International Labour Organization’s
(ILO) standards. As far as ILO is concerned, he said, work among other things
is a source of personal diginity and family stability. Presently, Nigeria’s
minimum wage he said is a far cry from this requirement. The Man Prof. Obasi Prof. Isaac Nnamdi Obasi was
born in the year 1956 to the family of Mr. Innocent and Mrs. Fidelia Obasi of
Ezuhu-Nguru, in Aboh-Mbaise Local Government Area of Imo State. Prof. Obasi is
the third out of six children. Despite the fact that his parents had no formal classroom
education, they knew the value of education which spurred them to ensure that
their children got formal education despite the incapacitating effects of the
Nigerian civil war. Today, we are all witnesses to their little effort in
caring and nursing of young Isaac several years ago. His Education He started his primary
school education at the LA Primary School, Ezuhu-Nguru in 1963. He later
transferred and completed his primary education at the All Saints Primary
School, Eke-Nguru after the civil war in 1970. He started his secondary
education in 1971 at the Mbaise Trade School (MTS) at Udo-na-Obizi in
Ezinihitte Mbaise Local Government Area of Imo State where he did class one. He
later moved to Emekuku Comprehensive School, Owerri in 1972 where he complete both
his secondary and technical education in 1975. Earlier in December 1974 and
January 1975 just before completing class 5 (which was the highest secondary
education class then), young Isaac sat for the London General Certificate of
Education (GCE) as an external candidate and obtained 5 credits. In class 5
(June 1975), he again sat successfully for the City and Guilds of London
(Technical) Certificate in Electrical Installation Work and Regulation and made
Distinction with A1 in all subjects. This achievement distinguished him with a Certificate of Merit for Academic Excellence
as the best Final Year student in his class. In his thirst for higher education,
he applied and got admission to study Political Science at the University of
Ibadan in 1978 and subsequently graduated in 1981with a Second Class Upper
Division. Again, his outstanding performance earned him the prestigious Sir Isaac Dina Memorial Prize as the
best Political Science Student in Public Administration in the class of 1981. Subsequently,
he did the mandatory National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) at the College of
Education, Akwanga (then in Plateau State). His love for scholastic
adventure and the experience he garnered during the mandatory National Youth
Service sharpened his  focus to chart his
path in academics and this led him to the then University of Sokoto (now Usmanu
Danfodiyo University) in the year 1982, as a Graduate Assistant. After a year,
he proceeded on Study Leave to the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN) where he
obtained an M.Sc degree in Public Administration and graduated in January 1985.
Two years later, precisely in 1987, he proceeded to the same university,
University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN) to acquire his Ph.D degree in the same
discipline and graduated in January 1991. During his doctoral studies, Isaac Obasi
got the highly competitive grant for Ph.D Thesis Writing from the Council for
the Development of Economic and Social Research in Africa (CODESRIA), Dakar,
Senegal. Work Experience Dr. Obasi rose through the
ranks and rapidly too to the position of Senior Lecturer in October 1991, at
the then University of Sokoto and this earned him another award tagged  ‘Special
Salary Increment for Outstanding contributions in Research and Publications’
by the University Management. As God graciously permitted, Dr. Obasi was later
appointed a visiting Senior Lecturer (on Sabbatical) by the University of Nigeria,
Nsukka (UNN) during the 1993/94 academic session. Returning to Sokoto after the
visiting appointment, Dr. Obasi finally decided to join UNN in May 1996. By January 2001, through
his glaring research records Dr. Obasi was head-hunted from the  University of Nsukka and appointed the pioneer
Programme Officer of the Social Science Academy of Nigeria (SSAN), Abuja (2001-2003).
However in January 2004, through another head-hunt, he joined the services of
the University of Botswana, Gaborone in Southern Africa where he rose to the
rank of Associate Professor in January 2008. While serving the University of
Botswana Prof. Obasi performed his job so creditably well that he was given
special recognition through A Note of
Appreciation ‘for defending and
implementing University Regulations very ably as Coordinator of MPA/MAPIR
programmes in the Department of Political and Administrative Studies (PAS). And after five years of
distinguished career in that University, he returned to the University of
Nigeria, Nsukka in January 2009, and thereafter transferred his services to the
University of Abuja in April 2009. By October 2011, he was promoted to the rank
of a Professor of Public Policy and Industrial Relations in the Department of
Public Administration of this great institution. As a consummate
researcher, Prof. Obasi secured during his career, numerous research grants from
international and national donor agencies including but not limited to the
following (a) Social Science Research Council (SSRC), New York, (b) Social
Science Council of Nigeria (Now Social Science Academy of Nigeria, SSAN) Abuja,
(c) Consortium of Foundations: MacArthur, Ford, Rockefeller, and Carnegie
Foundations with grant administered by SSAN, (d) Association of African
Universities, (AAU), Accra, Ghana, and (e) United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP). Outstanding Achievements As an international
scholar, Prof. Obasi was in 2006 granted a visiting Fellowship at the State
University of New York (SUNY), at Buffalo, and also appointed an
Affiliate Scholar at the Program on
Research on Private Higher Education (PROPHE) at another State University
of New York (SUNY) at Albany, USA. And as an internationally recognized
researcher, Prof. Obasi was inter alia
a grantee of the Association of African Universities (AAU) under its Study Programme on Research on Higher
Education Policy and Management. This award later served as a veritable
spring-board for many other research engagements in Africa and other countries
of the world. Prof. Obasi has been a pioneer and foremost researcher on Public Policy and Private Higher Education
(Private Universities) in Nigeria and Africa. Prof. Obasi has
distinctively served as Consultant to the Department for International
Development (DFID); United Nations Development Programme (UNDP); European Union
(EU); The World Bank; the International Institute for Educational Planning
(IIEP), UNESCO Headquarters, Paris; and to many other national organizations.
He served as Lead consultant to the team that developed the foundational training
Modules for the Public Service Institute of Nigeria, (PSIN), Abuja. He also
distinctively served as the Lead Consultant for the Nigeria 2015 MDGs End-point Report. He equally served as Lead
Consultant for the preparation of the Compendium of Public Service Reforms in Nigeria 2015-2017. In recognition of his
professional and academic contributions, Prof. Obasi was appointed a Fellow of
the Institute of Management Consultants (FIMC), as well as a Fellowof the Institute of Policy Management
Development (FIPMD). Family Life Prof. Obasi has been
married and is still happily married to Prof. (Mrs.) Susan Obasi of the Faculty
of Education of this great University. They are blessed with four wonderful
children; 2 boys and two girls and all of them are graduates with one them
having, an MSc degree in Media and Communication from the Pan Atlantic
University, Lekki, Lagos. Prof. Obasi is a man who
enjoys contemplative life. His main hobbies are reading newspapers, writing on
national issues, and listening to news and other Television programmes.