By Mohammad Tijjani Kaduna – The Commandant, Armed Forces Command and Staff College (AFCSC) Jaji, AVM Lawal Alao said the college has upscaled its training programmes to provide innovative ways of containing emerging security challenges in the country. Alao said this during a one day seminar of the Department of Maritime
Warfare on Counter Terrorism and Counter Insurgency for students of
Senior Course 41 in Jaji, Kaduna State on Monday. “As part of its constitutional roles, the Armed Forces of Nigeria has
been deployed across the country to decisively curtail these security
threats which are perpetuated by criminal elements operating from the
land, air and sea. “Nigeria had in the past decade, witnessed an upsurge in security
threats ranging from terrorism and insurgency, to kidnapping, militancy
and economic sabotage. “As the foremost training institution charged with preparing tactical
and operational level command and staff officers for contemporary
military operations, the Armed Forces Command and Staff College has
stepped up its training on Counter Terrorism and Counter Insurgency
Operations. “This is with a view to responding proactively to the recent upsurge
in terrorism and insurgency activities spearheaded by Boko Haram
Terrorists, as well as militia activities across the country,’’ he said. The commandant said that though much have been heard about the roles
of the Nigerian Army and Nigerian Air Force in Counter Terrorism and
Counter Insurgency Operations, the Nigerian Navy may not have enjoyed
equal attention due to the nature of its operating environment. “Accordingly, the Seminar on Maritime Power in Counter Terrorism and
Counter Insurgency Operations has been designed to enlighten
participants in this regard, as well as build the capacity of students
to better face operational realities in the field.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the, “The theme of the
Seminar is ‘Nigerian Navy Counter Terrorism and Counter Insurgency
Operations in Nigeria’. “I consider this theme quite apt, considering that terrorism and insurgency are currently Nigeria’s most potent security threat. “It will therefore, be expedient for us to be enlightened on how
Maritime Power is being employed for Counter Terrorism and Counter
Insurgency operations, and also how Nigerian Navy personnel are being
engaged to carry out this arduous task,” he said. He disclosed that some eminent and experienced resource persons have
been invited to facilitate the Seminar which promises to be
enlightening, stimulating and participatory, especially for the students
of Senior Course 41. Alao urged the students to pay attention to the presentations and
also to optimally engage with the resource persons as appropriate. “I also encourage the allied students to take this Seminar seriously,
as many of you are facing similar security challenges in your
respective countries, you will be required to utilise your training and
knowledge to enhance your countries’ efforts to neutralise such security
threats. “My expectation is that the resolutions from this Seminar will
contribute meaningfully to efforts of the Nigerian Navy, and indeed the
entire Armed Forces of Nigeria and her allies, at addressing our
contemporary security challenges.”