The Nigerian government has approved the donation of $500,000, over 350 electoral kits and seven vehicles, to facilitate a successful conduct of Guinea Bissau legislative election, slated for November 18, 2018. The Nigerian, Minister of Foreign Affairs , Geoffrey Onyeama, announced this when Special Representative of the UN Secretary General to Guinea Bissau, Mr. Jose Filho, visited him in Abuja. Mr. Onyeama expressed delight that Nigeria was able to play that important role stressing that President Buhari in his capacity as the Chairperson of ECOWAS was watching the situation in Guinea Bissau very closely. He said, “It is in the framework of establishing peace and stability in Guinea Bissau that Mr. President has approved a substantial number of elections kits to enable them to carry out this election. “Without those kits that are over 350, it is going to be difficult to carry out the election. “The last batch of it is about to be delivered, and in addition, Mr. President has approved the supply of seven vehicles with about 500,000 dollars,” Onyeama said. According to Mr. Onyeama, the substantial amount of money and other logistics are to help Guinea Bissau get out of what has been a very difficult situation for a number of years. “Guinea Bissau is very important for the ECOWAS sub region as you know that President Muhammadu Buhari is the chairperson of the ECOWAS and interested in the political situation of Guinea Bissau.” Mr. Onyeama said Nigeria, UN and ECOWAS are determined to ensure complete political stability in Guinea Bissau to permit economic development that the country needs. Mr. Jose Filho, thanked the Government of Nigeria for the role played in the preparation for the legislative election in Guinea Bissau, stressing that the presidential election will take place in 2019. “We came here to exchange view and express appreciation, not in the name of Guinea Bissau, but in the name of the of the international community because I represent the UN in Guinea Bissau. I thank Nigeria for the assistance to Guinea Bissau,” Mr. Filho said. He said Nigeria is playing an important role in furnishing kits for the election, which according to him will enhance the successful conduct of the election in Guinea Bissau.(Leadership.ng)