Let me go a bit personal. In those early years, myself and Iya Ibeji used to have this serious argument over taking responsibilities. Whenever I wasn’t around and I came back and noticed things were not in order, I took her on VEHEMENTLY even when I knew she might not have been directly responsible for the lapse. And she used to have this excuse: “Se emi nikan ni mo wa n’ile ni?” (Was I the only one at home) And I would retort: “Rara. Iwo nikan ko lo wa n’ile, sugbon ti mo ba ti jade, o ti di alase ile yii.” (You weren’t the only one I left in the house but when I am not in, you are in charge). And gradually, it sank into her. We have always had people staying with us; even as we speak. But, she knows that whenever I am not around, the buck stops at her table. Why? She knows I won’t blame any of the guys but will face her for any lapse. And result: she started paying attention to things that did not even in any way concern her. Leadership is not a tea party. It is not something you are just happy being called a leader. You not only provide direction, your personal conduct must show you are a leader. Nigerians have pampered Buhari too much. For whoever did his juju for him, I doff my hat. No leader in the history of this country have people given excuses for their inadequacies like this dude. Someone, somewhere just has to be blamed for his infractions. Imagine Kadaria Ahmed blaming Zamfara governor for killings. Today, if they want to remove the governor, all they need to do is give security backing to his traducers and he is gone. For things we BLAMED Abacha, Obasanjo, Jonathan, Yar’Adua for, Buhari is being shown SYMPATHY. It is not only strange but patently disgusting. And this is even coming for guys who operate in the corporate environment where there is zero tolerance for mediocrity! What I noticed is that most of his supporters do not know a jack about leadership. They are bunch of illiterates who think all you need to make a leader perform is showering him with raw emotions. Those who were first born in the respective families were taught leadership skills right from very young age. Some as early as 12, they had to cook and take care of their younger ones. They knew what to do before mummy would come back. In fact, they were the ones to remind mummy of things needed in the house! Try any nonsense with their younger ones, either in the school or on the street, they die there. As they say on the streets. And they could be females but they learnt the ropes of leadership very early. Go and check them at adult: they are organised and effective leaders. Buhari is not doing us a favour by being president. At least, he is not doing me. Let him BUCKLE up or DOUBLE out…. Source: Facebook