Idowu Gabriel Ado-Ekiti – The Fiscal Responsibility Commission, (FRC) has assured the completion of the 74mcm Ogbese Multi-Purpose Hydro Power Dam, a Federal Government project valued at N11 billion in Ekiti State. The leader of the South West FRC team, Alhaji Ibrahim Dauda, gave the assurace on Tuesday during the inspection of the dam site in Ogbese -Ekiti, Ose Local Government Area of the state. He was represented by Mr Hyacinth Abutu, an official of the commission. Dauda stressed the importance of the dam project to the development of the economy of the state and the nation at large. According to him,when completed, the project will provide electricity and water supply among others to neighbouring rural communities and towns. He also assured that an appeal, inform of recommendations, would be made to the Presidency for the prompt release of budgetray money for the completion of project to avoid unnecessary delay. ” This is necessary that the purpose of the project was not jeopardised. “The vision of FRC is to monitor the prudent management of the Federal government’s expenditures on the project. ” We are to ascertain the value for money of any project awarded by the federal government. “Our aim of visiting is to ascertain the level of work done in this projects.and whether the budgetary money released corresponds with level of work at the projects. “We also want to identify some of the challenges that may be hindering the prompt delivery of some of these projects. “We are going to make appeal to the Federal government, by recommendation for the release of fund to complete the project for the benefit of Ekiti people and Nigeria at large,” Abutu said. The Project Director of the project, Mr Gbenga Ajiboyeidentified lack of prompt budgetary release of fund as the major reason for the low level of their performance. Moshood Sola-Doye,the consultant to the project, recalled that the contract project was awarded in 2009, adding that only N5 billion was earmarked out of the N11 billion contract sum after being subjected to review. While conducting the FRC team round the project site, Ajiboye said, “The dam, which is purposely for hydroelectric power put at 1,050 meters length and 74 million Cubic Meters,( 74mcm) is still at 45 per cent completion due to paucity of fund.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports other projects inspected to include  the 36 rooms administrative complex for the Nigeria Immigration Service,(NIS), Ekiti Command office, valued at over N148 million in Ado-Ekiti. Other projects the team also inspected  are : furnished six class-rooms and a 3-in-1 Science Laboratory at the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti ,(FUOYE),valued at N43.6 million and N164 million. The representative of the contractor at the NIS permanent office, Alhaji Umar Jingi, appealed for the release of more fund for the completion and delivering of the project. He said the project reached 53 per cent completion before the end of June, 2019. Earlier, the Comptroller of Immigration, Ekiti Command, Mrs Ifoma Dibia, urged the government to do perimeter fencing of the office, saying that some individuals had started  encroaching the area. The Director of Physical Planning, Federal University, OYE, Mr Adebowale Ayodele, said that the university had taken delivery of the six- classroom project of 2016 budget and had  been in use about two years ago. ‘’The  ‘3-in-1’ Science Laboratory located at the main campus in Oye-Ekiti, puts at 90 per cent completion is yet to be handed over by the contractor. “This is due to inability of the federal government to pay the Sum of N82 million,’’  Ayodele said’’(NAN)