…Asks NASS to Launch Investigation By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja
(Sundiata Post) – The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has queried the All
Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government and the Buhari Presidency
over alleged unwholesome borrowings leading to the escalation of the nation
debt stock from N12.12 trillion in 2015 to an overburdening N24.38 trillion in
2018. The party
described as saddening and devastating that President Muhammadu Buhari’s
administration, in its manifest incompetence and lack of initiative to
stimulate and run a productive economy, reliance on heavy borrowings and
unbearable tax regimes, which have crippled productivity, caused untold
hardship and mortgaged the economic future of our nation. It disclosed
this on Monday in a statement signed by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola
Ologbondiyan Sent to
Sundiata Post. According to
the statement, “Since President Buhari assumed office in 2015, there has been a
culture of unexplained borrowings leading to a steep rise in the debt stock
from N17.5 trillion in 2016 to N21.72 trillion in 2017 and a huge N24.387
trillion in 2018. “It is
shocking and completely insupportable that our nation’s debt had risen from
N21.72 trillion in December 2017 to N24.387 trillion in December 2018, showing
an accumulation of a whopping N2.66 trillion in a space of one year. “President
Muhammadu Buhari-led administration therefore has a huge explanation to make to
Nigerians for its borrowing spree, especially as it cannot point to any meaningful
development project into which the borrowed funds were invested. “This is
particularly against the backdrop of allegations in the public space that the
borrowed funds, which were taken as development funds, were diverted to 2019
general elections campaign activities of the APC, a huge part of which ended in
private pockets of corrupt APC leaders. “This is in
addition to direct frittering of public funds through the alleged N1.4 trillion
sleazy oil subsidy regime, the looted N9 trillion detailed in the leaked NNPC
memo, the alleged N33 billion fraud in the handling of funds meant for the
welfare of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the North East, among other
sleazes. The PDP
therefore called on the National Assembly to commence a system-wide investigation
into the borrowings by the Buhari administration, particularly the terms of the
borrowing and the handling of the funds. It also urged
the National Assembly to save the future of our nation by restricting the
Buhari administration from taking further loans on behalf of our country until
explanations are provided on the terms and handling of the borrowed funds. Nigerians
cannot afford to continue to bear burden of an incompetent and insensitive
administration and that is why they eagerly await the retrieval of our stolen
mandate at the Presidential election petition tribunal, the statement added.