If you enter Canada on a visitors visa, then disappear, how much effort will they put into finding you? Lots of effort! This person would go on all the ‘watch for’ lists. I’ll tell you a few things about this so you can make a better plan. If you enter as a tourist or visitor and fail to leave, you will not have any documentation saying you are in Canada legally. That documentation includes a government-issued Social Insurance Number issued on a card. This card and number identifies you as somebody entitled to be here. Without that documentation, you cannot get a job. Employers in Canada do not hire undocumented workers. If they do, the employer gets audited, charged, big fines, major disruption in management, further auditing, and they go on the watch list. It’s costly and disruptive for an employer to hire an undocumented worker, so they don’t do it. Nobody hires undocumented workers. You cannot open a bank account unless you have documentation. You cannot rent an apartment or rent a car either. You cannot apply and get a credit card either. You cannot live in a hotel. You cannot go to school or into any training program. You cannot get a driver’s license. You cannot drive a truck. You can not start a small business. Basically, you can shovel snow or cut grass for cash and sleep in a cardboard box in a park. Without documentation, you cannot have any kind of life in Canada. This is why we don’t have an illegal immigration problem. You need a better plan. Why do you want to do this? What are you running from? Edit: I should add that when found, you will be deported after serving prison time, and will never be permitted back to Canada. If later, you try to enter other countries, they will see that you were deported from Canada and will deny you entry. That might not matter much now, but it will in the future. The police won’t actively hunt you down unless you are considered a security threat, but it is likely that someone will report you once they realize you are illegally in Canada. Your illegal status will be obvious because you are unable to participate in ordinary, everyday things. Why would somebody report you? Canadians don’t like people taking advantage of our country’s generosity. We like things done properly. If you are in Canada illegally, the perception is that you need to commit crimes to pay your way. Source: Quora