Nigeria is likely the next target of the second coming genocide on African Continent unless the country reverses itself through its present central political leaders from another ‘bloody match to Kigali’. Intersociety holds that the circumstances or factors that led to the Rwandan Genocide of April to July 1994 are very much visible in Nigeria under the present political dispensation. Genocide in the world
over does not erupt overnight; rather it is hatched over a long or short
period of time until it explodes. It can be protagonist or antagonist
and in the case of Nigeria, there are already silent antagonist
genocides ongoing. They emanate from the central Government of Nigeria
through deliberately designed hash policies targeted at certain ethnic
nationalities and religious groupings and Government backed non state
actor violent entity-the Jihadist Fulani herdsmen. Specifically,
there are government genocidal policies against Shiite Muslims,
Northern Christian minorities and citizens of Eastern Nigeria; all
perpetrated through the hydra headed monster policies of structural,
physical and cultural violence. Such government
genocidal policies are systematically executed through policies of
structural, physical and cultural violence including political
exclusion, imbalanced security appointments, militarization, militarism,
racial profiling and discrimination-and cultural or identity
stigmatisation or degradation. There is also government-backed
non-state silent genocide through systematic massacre by Jihadist Fulani
herdsmen of members of Christian faith in Northern Nigeria. In all
these, the affected ethnic nationalities and religious groupings are
likely in a verge of exhausting their patience and toleration. Running
out of patience and toleration could catastrophically and calamitously
lead to radical vengeance or reprisals; leading to war of anyone’s enemy
against anyone or everybody’s enemy against everybody (genocide);
defying controls through Government and its military and even
humanitarian agencies until it reaches a point of exhaustion. The above
symbolises the Rwandan Genocide of April to July 1994. Therefore,
the 2019 25th anniversary of the Rwandan Genocide is unique in Nigeria
not only because it raised domesticated awareness and concerns in the
country, but particularly because of the crocodile tears shaded by the
Federal Government of Nigeria. The 25th
anniversary was marked with the Government of Nigeria sending its Vice
President, Yemi Osinbajo, to Kigali to join others in saying “never
again to genocide in Africa”; yet signs are obviously everywhere that
the same central Government of Nigeria is warily or unwarily breeding or
condoning the breed of same genocide in the country. Having
studiously followed the patterns and trends of the Rwandan/Burundian
politics since 1990s through our Board Chair (with verse knowledge in
international affairs), Intersociety is not a newcomer in matters that
caused the Rwandan Genocide of 1994 and the pre-genocide massacres or
killings that took place in Rwandan and Burundi dating back to 1966
after their partitioning and independence from Belgium in 1962 and
afterwards. We are aware, too, of the violent roles of the military in
the political crises of Rwanda and Burundi and acutely disproportionate
gaps between the population of Hutus (84%) and Tutsis (15%) and
devastating roles played by the former using “population superiority”
and consequent “balance of terror” strategies adopted by the latter
using asymmetric military superiority and domination. We are also
fully grounded with circumstances that led to the abolition of
monarchies in the two countries few years after their independence, the
existing identical tribes of Hutu, Tutsi and Twi in Rwanda and Burundi,
the favoritism policy of the Belgian colonial masters towards Tutsis
owing to their reported historical links with the Israel’s Ham tribe,
the ancient agrarian rift between the Hutus (crop farmers) and Tutsis
(cow and livestock farmers) and regimentation, militarization and
radicalization of the rift by Hutu and Tutsi political extremists; the
disadvantageous economic, political and military structure control by
Tutsis courtesy of the Belgian colonial masters, to mention but few.In
the Rwandan Genocide proper, which saw the death between 800,000 and
one million Tutsis and moderate Hutus in 100 days (7th April-21st July
1994) and additional post-genocide death of over 200,000 mainly in
neighbouring refugee camps owing to diseases and rival rebel attacks;
Intersociety is not unaware of the conspiratorial roles of “the three
musketeers” (France, UK and Belgium) as well as the Catholic Church
through its heartless nuns in the Genocide. The butchery was so brutish,
total and exhaustive that the then Commander of the RPF rebels, now
President Paul Kagame of Rwanda, told a foreign radio station that had
asked him to explain why the killings suddenly stopped “that the
killings have stopped not because of changing of heart but because there
are few people left to be killed”. Genocide Does Not Erupt Overnight The
Rwandan genocide was bred or hatched over a long period of time with
decades of butcheries caused by Tutsi and Hutu led coups and counter
coups, election rigging crises, political segregation and exclusion as
well as acute domination of economic resources and political offices.
The undue favoring by the Belgian colonial masters of the Tutsi
population and their elevation to the two countries’ plum positions
including key military posts had forced the majority Hutu population to
resort to group violence-leading to structural, physical and cultural
violence against the Tutsi population. The Tutsis were stigmatized
(cultural violence) as “cockroaches” that must be cleansed or wiped out
(“nettover”). The Tutsis retaliated through their stronghold of
the military by launching several military coups and putsch killings
targeting Hutu political and military leaders and officers. There were
counter retaliations and massacres organised by Hutu political leaders
and extremists, forcing Tutsi population to flee en masse into Uganda
and other neighboring countries where they settled as refugees. Such
massacres were reported to have taken place in 1966, 1972 and 1978;
running into 1980s. While in refugee camps, Tutsi and Hutu refugees
formed or joined rebel groups in countries like former Zaire (Congo DRC)
and Uganda. In Uganda, the generation of current President Paul
Kagame of Rwanda had belonged to Rwandan Tutsi citizens who fled their
country to escape the 1972 and 1978 Hutu organised massacres and settled
as refugees in Uganda; from where they were conscripted into the
National Resistance Movement (NRM) of the then Ugandan Rebel leader, but
now President Yoweri Museveni and assisted him to overthrow the then
Ugandan military Government of Generals Tito and Basilo Okello in 1986. The
Tutsis were so visible in the Museveni’s NRM that his earliest Chief of
Army was a Tutsi refugee and senior rebel/military colleague of current
President Paul Kagame, who rose to become a Brigadier-General in
Ugandan Army under Museveni. Together they formed the Rwandan Patriotic
Front (RPF) that ended the Rwandan genocide of 1994 through their
“famous match to Kigali” from the Ugandan-Rwandan borders; forming the
present economic reformative but dictatorial government headed by him in
Rwanda since July 1994, a period of 25 years. From the above,
therefore, factors that led to the Rwandan genocide of 1994 are also
very visible in Nigeria; meaning that genocide is loading in the country
unless such destructive factors are constructively addressed or totally
eliminated. It is a clear case of crocodile tears for hatchers of state
actor and non state actor genocide to join the rest of the world in
marking the remembrance of one of the most calamitous human tragedies of
the recent times in far away Rwanda. Religocide and ethnocide are the
most dangerous and intractable types of genocide; more dangerous and
intractable than war genocide. And the two are being hatched in Nigeria
under the present central Government headed by Retired Major-General
Muhammadu Buhari and Prof Yemi Osinbajo. Under the
Buhari/Osinbajo Administration since June 2015, Nigeria has become one
of the most dangerous countries for professing Christianity and
Traditional Religion. Right to ethnic identity including ethnic minority
is also under serious threat in Nigeria. The Administration has
provided insecurity and other unsafe conditions for Christian Ethnic
Minorities in Northern Nigeria. The administration has also encouraged
or directly introduced imbalanced citizenship including lopsided
constituency delineation, creation of scanty polling centers, voter
deprivation and intimidation and disproportionate security or police
protection ratios, etc against Nigerian citizens of Northern Christian
origins and southern Christians residing in Northern Nigeria
particularly those of Eastern Nigeria comprising Southeast and
South-south. The just held 2019 presidential poll has also thrown
up or singled out Nigeria as one of the most dangerous countries to
cast a presidential vote as a minority Christian or Igbo Christian
residing in the North or Southwest. The Poll saw the places dominated by
Igbo Christians in Lagos and other parts of Southwest as well as Kano
and Nasarawa’s Sabon Gari, Jos, Jalingo, Maiduguri, Kaduna and other
Igbo Christian dominated areas of the North being heavily militarized
leading to Government hired thugs and brigands raining the areas with
sundry electoral violence including burning of polling centers, tearing
of ballot papers, snatching of ballot boxes, prevention and intimidation
of voters, etc. It was so bad that Government and its officials
or its movers and shakers came out boldly to claim responsibility and
even went to the extent of shutting down major Igbo dominated markets;
threatening them with death and loss of properties (wares) unless they
vote for Government candidates or stay away from voting. During the
Governorship poll in Lagos, for instance, many, if not most Igbo
registered voters stayed away from voting to avoid death or loss of
their properties. In Plateau State, Igbo traders in Jos stayed off their
shops for several days, if not weeks for fear of Government oiled post
election violence; likewise in Jalingo, Taraba State, to mention but
few. The national security policy of the present central
government of Nigeria is only comparable to that of a failed State. The
policy not only defies modern day definition but it is also analogous
and genocide friendly. Despite human security concept that rules modern
democratic world, Nigeria’s national security concept begins with
militarism and militarization and ends in ethnic chauvinism and
religious bigotry. The Buhari and Osinbajo’s national security policy is
so downgraded that mental-man-machine security which rules today’s
securitization world, is strange and alien to the same government or
administration. Over 17,850 lives have been lost since the
present central government of Nigeria came to power in mid 2015. The
deaths involve 2,403 government killings (Christians, Shiites and
Christian /Muslim Women and Children), 6,250 (Christians killed by
Jihadist Fulani herdsmen), 4,600 mostly Muslims (killed by Zamfara
Islamic bandits including 3,526 killed in Zamfara and over 1000 killed
along Birnin Gawari and its environs in Kaduna) and 4,600 Christians and
collateral Muslims deaths killed by Boko Haram insurgents and allied
others. The number of those killed under street criminal
activities such as armed robbery, abduction/kidnapping, murder, campus
and street cultism, rape and preventable industrial and auto crashes is
in thousands annually and tens of thousands since June 2015; likewise
numbers killed in communal strife and those who died owing to excessive
use of force by the Police especially the operatives of Police special
squads like SARS, CID, Anti Cult, etc. Put together, they are in tens of
thousands, if not hundreds of thousands since June 2015. Genocide
in the world over erupts when hatched by non state actor elements and
encouraged by the sitting government such as in the case of present
Nigerian government and its protected Jihadist Fulani herdsmen. Genocide
can also erupt when bred by a sitting Government using and skyrocketing
ethnic divisions and religious bigotry all layered in the policies of
structural, physical and cultural violence. Structural violence
is represented by political exclusion and segregation while physical
violence is a Government policy of using deadly or excessive force
against targeted unarmed and defenseless citizens on the basis of their
ethnicity and faith; leading to their mass death and maiming. Cultural
violence is done through Government hate speech or cultural policy
including false labeling or stigmatisation of particular citizens on the
ground of their ethnicity or religion or degradation of their
citizenship to “second or third class”. In all these, the present
central Government of Nigeria headed by Buhari and Osinbajo is fully or
inescapably liable. •Written on behalf of the International Society for Civil Liberties & the Rule of Law (Intersociety) by Emeka Umeagbalasi, Obianuju Joy Igboeli, Chinwe Umeche and Ndidiamaka Bernard