Nigeria has largely experienced one system of doing things: estimation,
and this is based on the fact that as an African society it is mostly a
traditional rather than a scientific culture. One major property of
scientific cultures is exactitude, which is parallel to a major
ingredient of traditional societies, approximation, according to Odera
Oruka. Exactitude runs through scientific cultures in many ways. For
example while a Nigerian may guess where you are going even if you
mispronounce it, it is quite difficult for an Englishman or an American
to do the same. Also a Nigerian mechanic generally works by
approximation whereas most technicians in scientific cultures work with
precision tools. Approximation may have its value in the sense
that it gets things done anyway even if not exactly; as G.K. Chesterton
would say, “what is worth doing is worth doing badly.” The danger
however is the imposition of human sentiment and will. We witness this a
lot through the estimated electricity billing system. I once had a
strong argument with a National Electricity Power Authority(NEPA)
official when he visited our offices in Calabar and the next month our
bill was tripled! On the other hand friends could get their bills
slashed. We all remember what it was with Nigerian Telecommunications
and their billing system! The success of the GSM
telecommunication in Nigeria has mainly been due to the fact of the
exactitude of its billing system. When carriers began with per minute
billing which was a form of approximation, it was an indigenous company,
GLO that caused a turn around with per second billing which was more
precise. Since then all the providers have turned to per second billing
and the prepaid model has worked for the ordinary Nigerian. The success
of the GSM system shows that industrial   peace and harmony could be
achieved between users and operators because of the neutrality of
technology. We know that technology could be manipulated but generally
the introduction of technology apart from facilitating processes helps
African cultures which are more prone to gratification and prebendalism
to downplay the human factor. See what technology has done in the
banking system with the introduction of the Bank Verification Number
(BVN) and the introduction of automation in personnel pay systems,
saving millions for government, millions  which were being routed to
private pockets of civil servants. Technology has been a friend of the
ordinary Nigerian, saving him from official corruption, as the average
Nigerian has a tendency to apply undue discretion as the rule rather
than the exception. Undue discretion led to the collapse of Nigeria
Airways and many industries. Technology has been a principal means of
restoring confidence in public and private business systems which were
rather seen as dysfunctional or corrupt.Before the
2019 presidential election, INEC- the electoral umpire, of the President
Obasanjo days was the most corrupt. The level of collusion between
officials of state and officials of INEC was unprecedented. Rigging in
the form of massive finger printing and stuffing of ballot papers,
ballot box snatching, polling unit violence, were the order of the day.
Nigerians came to accept rigging as part of the electoral process
especially knowing that parties could only rig where they were the
strongest. Goodluck Jonathan’s first election in 2011 was seen as
credible even though parties still rigged largely because the umpire was
seen as neutral and also because there seemed to be a distance between
the president and the principal electoral umpire Atahiru Jega. The fresh
air mantra, the ordinariness and humility of Jonathan thus won him the
election. By 2015 Nigerians’ faith in the electoral system was
heightened because of the hope of technology. Jonathan’s apparent
ineptitude was not going to be carried forward. What with the smart card
reader! The idea that every adult would have a permanent voter’s card
which would be recognised by a smart card reader for accreditation meant
that a major headache of electoral fraud would be overcome and number
of votes would match number of accredited voters. But it did appear that
in the 2015 elections those in the north had intel earlier than their
counterparts in the south that the smart card readers might not count if
there were any challenges associated with accreditation. This seemed to
be responsible for early round up of elections in many southern states
with the result that by the time INEC announced that smart card readers
could be put aside, it was already too late for many Southern states to
reap the kind of humungous figures their northern counterparts had safe
for a few states. The victory at the Supreme Court of Peoples’
Democratic Party controlled states of Rivers and AKWA Ibom on the basis
of electronic systems not recognized in the electoral act spurred INEC
to seek the revision of the Electoral Act to include electronic
facilities. The assurance by INEC that all accreditation would be
through the card reader galvanized the civil society to have confidence
in the electoral system especially since voters for the first time had
been able to push out an incumbent in 2015. Again it was quite
disillusioning to realise that despite the assurances some states
especially in the north voted without use of card readers for
accreditation in the 2019 elections. Again the ruling party
apparently intended to cash in on the judgment of the Supreme Court
which validated Wike and Udom’s elections in 2015 and benefited the
opposition so President Buhari downplayed the role of electronic
facilities in the electoral process by not signing the revised electoral
bill into law! It seemed then that one could do anything and get away
with it despite technological evidences so long as the electoral act did
not capture electronic facilitation. Whereas the Obasanjo government,
the Yar’Adua, and especially Jonathan’s did not impede the advancements
in the electoral act as could enhance a free and fair poll, the APC
government under Buhari has not done anything tangible to improve
electoral credibility and has rather given the impression that it took
advance steps to secure controversial electoral wins. The current
issue concerning INEC server is really a question of legality versus
morality. While the electoral law did not provide for electronic
transmission, INEC’s actual operations did factor in such technological
provisions, although on a pilot basis. Indeed immediately after the
elections a politician friend of mine confessed that he didn’t know that
the role of the Assistant Polling Officer (APO) was crucial. Apparently
he had ignored the APO even when he was advised to extend courtesies by
the PO. It wasn’t until later in the day that he came to understand
that the APO was the electronic collation officer and the one that would
transmit the result to the INEC server after the parties had signed
off. I dare say that not many politicians knew that this aspect was part
of INEC processes otherwise they would have been more careful to ‘work’
on the APOs. What the APOs did therefore may have been the equivalent
of entries in a bank account’s profile which are extremely difficult to
go back and manipulate. Even if INEC did not intend it for the purpose
of announcing results, there is an INEC server and it is public
knowledge that results were transmitted electronically from every ward
directly into the server and such a result would have suffered less
manual manipulation. The reality is that even if evidence is
brought forward at the end of the day that results were truly
transmitted electronically, the hurdle would be proving its legality as
there is already a precedent established by the Supreme Court, although
no law also specifically says it is illegal to have done so.
Unfortunately the Nigerian judiciary has had its dirty linens so washed
publicly that the Supreme Court is not expected to muster such courage
as to make a moral judgment and ruling. The opposition candidate
Abubakar Atiku could therefore win the moral argument in the court of
public opinion supported by hard data in the INEC server if he ever gets
access to it but there appears to be no more court in the land that
would move past legality to morality. The tragic effect of all
this is that except for party affiliates, the non partisan Nigerian may
already have lost appetite for anything electoral, knowing that his vote
matters only if and when the authorities want it to matter, as happened
mostly with the governorship elections; and not because there is any
independent umpire that would rake in authentic results irrespective of
the disposition of those in authority. Now that Nigeria is in this cul
de sac, the least PMB should do is to sign off on the electoral act so
we officially consign estimated vote count to the past, the way we are
trying to do away with estimated billing systems. Removing the barriers
obstructing the true will of the people could be the greatest
anti-corruption fight and a springboard to rapid development for then
elected officials would be accountable, knowing that they were bound to
perform well or be voted out. As at now it doesn’t really matter whether
they perform well or not, they would win anyway. •Evaristus Bassey, a Catholic priest, wrote from the United Kingdom 