Below is the full story as narrated by Prof Chidi Odinkalu of a fake twitter account taking advantage of innocent people about a false cancer claim after using the details of an already deceased cancer patient. Digital fraud has become a major industry in crime globally with guarantees of anonymity making it very difficult to prevent, detect & redress. Even by the standards of the Ether, some of the manifestations are truly breath-taking. Here’s a story that dramatizes the point….
Paul Arisa was born in 1989. He graduated from Federal Government College (FGC) Ohafia in Abia State, #Nigeria, in 2007. He later went to Abia State University where he graduated with a degree in Estate Management. He had a promising future ahead of him. Sometime in 2011, however, the University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital (UPTH) diagnosed Mr. Arisa wth Hodgkin’s Lymphoma, a rare form of cancer. He was treated for the ailment there with chemotherapy & appeared initially appeared to make some progress. Good day all. Apologies for the long silence on Paul’s case. I am grateful to God for Paul’s positive response to treatment. Treatment is still on going and I’m glad to say that h…  By 2012, the tumour returned with a vengeance & despite concerted medical attention, kept growing. In 2016, Mr. Arisa’s family went public with the launch of an appeal fund to help pay the increasing costs for his treatment.  Photos: Nigerian Man Diagnosed With Hodgkin’s Lymphoma Cancer, Paul Arisa Needs Help. February 24, 2016 – Pictures: Nigerian Man, Abia State University Graduate Diagnosed With Hodgkin’s Lymphoma Cancer, Paul Arisa Needs Help The family of Paul Arisa, a 27-year-old graduate of Abia Sta…  In May 2018, Paul Arisa tragically lost his prolonged, 7-year long battle with cancer. His family & friends, exhausted from the experience, were entitled to manage their emotions & deal with the grief in peace & quiet.  That was until the early hours of today when someone who identified himself as @officialposh666 launched an appeal on Twitter for funds to treat himself for cancer using the exact same pictures of Paul Arisa, who died nearly 1 year ago! This didn’t even involve identity theft In his appeal fund lunch, @officialposh666, who would later be revealed from his bank accounts to be Mr. Odinaka Emma Umeh, asked sympathisers to pay money into named accounts in @myaccessbank who now own Diamond Bank. It looks like funds started pouring in. Mr. Arisa’s school mates were the 1st to notice this & one of them, @KcUzoka blew the whistle on @officialposh666’s crime nearly eight hours after it began at 09:52 hrs today. By then, however, quite some money had already been transferred into his account Following reports by Mr. Arisa’s schoolmates & family, it appears the Twitter account that launched this scam – @officialposh666 – has now been suspended or restricted. He shd, however, be unmasked & brought to account. If @myaccessbank did their KYC properly, that shd be easy. This awful story will not preclude many more ppl from falling victim to the next digital scammer wielding a story meant for the heart strings. Those who fall victim without due diligence have themselves to blame. Meanwhile, @PoliceNG & @myaccessbank have a duty to unmask this man