By Ariwodola Idowu Ado Ekiti – Dr Olusegun Osinkolu, the Director General of the Buhari/ Osinbajo Campaign Council in Ekiti, has advised the commissioner-nominees cleared by the state Assembly to refrain from acts of corruption. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Osinkolu  gave the advice on Saturday while addressing newsmen in Ado Ekiti. According to him, their focus should be on how to utilise the Kayode Fayemi administration’s  four cardinal programmes  aimed at transforming the lives of the people of the state. He described those nominated by the governor as committed individuals in their respective communities aside from being party loyalists. Osinkolu said he  had no doubt they would discharge their duties diligently to ensure a  radical turnaround of the state’s economy. NAN reports that Fayemi had last week Tuesday sent the names of 14 commissioners-nominees to the Ekiti Assembly for screening and approval. The commissioner-nominees were later confirmed by the House on Thursday. The governor would  on April 9  inaugurate the cabinet members and subsequently assign them portfolios. Osinkolu said the proposed cabinet members came at a time when the people were having high expectations from all sectors to compensate for the deprivation  suffered in the past. He urged them to bear  in mind that they were appointed to serve and not to pursue personal gains and material acquisition. “Gov. Fayemi met a lot of rot in the system caused by bad policies and laxity on the part of the immediate past administration. “He came at a time when several months of salary and pension arrears were owed. Deductions and gratuities to civil servants and retirees running into several millions of naira are outstanding and infrastructure in schools are dilapidated and our people are questing for radical improvement. “I want the nominees to share the dream of our governor and his resolve to bail us out of this conundrum. “Under Ayodele Fayose- led government, over 40,000 people were displaced from the safety net like the social security scheme, Ekiti State Peace Corps, Youth in Commercial Farming  and others being policies  initiated by Gov. Fayemi in 2011 “This is apart from astronomic increase in the level of unemployment among youths. All these, the  APC government will have to tackle for people to have a reprieve. “They must know that coming at this precarious time as commissioners is more of a service than material acquisition,’’ he said. (NAN)