New York – U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren will introduce a bill on Friday that offers new protection for U.S. military families facing unsafe housing, following  series of Reuters reports revealing squalid conditions in privately-managed base homes. The Reuters reports and later Congressional hearings detailed widespread hazards,
including lead paint exposure, vermin infestations, collapsing ceilings, mold and maintenance lapses in
privatised base housing communities that serve some 700,000 U.S. military family members. The Massachusetts Democrat’s bill would mandate both regular and unannounced spot inspections
of base homes by certified, independent inspectors, holding landlords accountable for quickly fixing hazards. The military’s privatisation programmes for years allowed real estate firms to operate base housing with
scant oversight, Reuters found, leaving some tenants in unsafe homes with little recourse against landlords. The bill would also require the Department of Defence and its private housing operators to publish
reports annually detailing housing conditions, tenant complaints, maintenance response times and
the financial incentives companies receive at each base. The provisions aim to enhance transparency of housing deals whose finances and operations the military
had allowed to remain largely confidential under a privatisation programmes since the late 1990s. The measure would also require private landlords to cover moving costs for at-risk families, and healthcare
costs for people with medical conditions resulting from unsafe base housing, ensuring they receive continuing
coverage even after they leave the homes or the military. “This bill will eliminate the kind of corner-cutting and neglect the Defence Department should never have
let these private housing partners get away with in the first place,” Warren said in a statement Friday. The proposed legislation comes after February Senate hearings where Warren, a member of the Senate
Armed Services Committee who is seeking the Democratic nomination for
the 2020 U.S. presidential election, slammed private real estate firms. He slammed them for endangering service families, and sought answers
about why military branches weren’t providing more oversight. Her legislation would direct the Defence Department to allow local
housing code enforcers onto federal bases, following concerns they were
sometimes denied access. Warren’s office said a companion bill in the House of Representatives
would be introduced by Rep. Deb Haaland, Democrat of New Mexico. In response to the housing crisis, military branches are developing a
tenant bill of rights and hiring hundreds of new housing staff. The branches recently dispatched commanders to survey base housing
worldwide for safety hazards, resulting in thousands of work orders and
hundreds of tenants being moved. The Defence Department has pledged to renegotiate its 50-year contracts with private real estate firms. Congress has been quick to take its own measures. Earlier legislation proposed by senators Dianne Feinstein and Kamala Harris of California, along with Mark Warner
and Tim Kaine of Virginia, would compel base commanders to withhold rent
payments and incentive fees from the private ventures if they allow
home hazards to persist.