By Dorcas Jonah Abuja – For the full potential of the sporting and associated industries to be realised, countries must put in place adequate, responsive, and effective legal frameworks for the protection, administration and enforcement of rights. The Director-General, Nigerian Copyright Commission (NCC), Mr John
Asein, stated this in Abuja, in his goodwill message to mark the 2019
World Intellectual Property Day. He noted that the Federal Executive Council recently approved a Draft Copy Bill Government “that is forward looking and better suited for the digital environment“. According to him, the move is also government response to the need to
modernise its copyright system and better emerging challenges. The director-general said NCC joined in marking the day because
Nigeria occupied unique place in the world of sports, given its exploits
and remarkable success in various sporting events. He paid tribute to talented youths, men and women whose sporting
talents, particularly in football, boxing, weightlifting, and athletes
continued to bring laurels and honour to the country. ”On this occasion, we pay tribute to our talented youths, men and
women whose sporting talents continue to bring laurels and honour to the
country. “Across national boundaries, the universal value of sports in today’s world is phenomenal. “It has become a multi-billion–dollar global industry that creates
employment, attracts investment and contributes to the growth of a whole
chain of dependent industries. “Business relationships built on intellectual property rights help to secure the economic value of sports, “ he said. He said the day was set aside by member states of the World
Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO) to raise global awareness on
the importance of Intellectual property (IP). Asein said the theme of the event, ‘Reach for Gold: IP and Sports“,
was chosen to take a closer look inside the world of sports, the
creative and innovation elements that sustained them. He said it was also on how intellectual property could continue to improve the future of sports. Asein said the industry created employments, attracts investment and
contribute to the growth of a whole chain of dependant industries. ”It is estimated that intellectual property lies at the heart of the
commercial exploitation of sports, contributing substantially to the
growth of a community of players, fans whose net worth over 300 billion
dollars. ”The use of intellectual property rights, through branding,
merchandising, licensing of live broadcast and transmission of sporting
events represents significant streams of income in the sports sector. He called on all stakeholders to continue to support government in
its determination to build a functional copyright system, that would
deliver the expected dividends to right owners.