By Babatunde Ogunrinde Lagos – The organisers of the GOtv Boxing Night extravaganza on Tuesday said that the 18th edition of the boxing show would hold in Ibadan on April 21 to celebrate he Easter. Jenkins Alumona, the Chief EXecutive Officer (CEO) of Flykite
Productions, told newsmen in Lagos that the boxing fiesta would come up
at the Obafemi Awolowo Stadium (former Liberty Stadium) on Easter
Sunday. “This will be the third time the event is being hosted in the Oyo
State capital, the championship was held in the ancient city in March
2017 and July 2018. “We are so proud to be back for the first edition in 2019 which
happens to be our 18th in the space of five years since we began in
2014. “We are very committed to the development of the event and enjoy the
unwavering support of Multichoice Nigeria, the owners of GOtv satellite
networks. “As usual, the edition promises to be big and even bigger than what we achieved in the previous editions,’’ Alumona said. According to him, eight fights will take the centre stage out of which two would be for international championship title bouts. The scheduled fights include that of Ibadan-based boxer, Nigeria’s
Akeem Sadiku “Dodo’’ who will take on Ekpresso Djamihou “Rambo’’ of
Republic Benin. The fight is for eight round international Light Middleweight challenge. Nigeria’s Oto Joseph “Joe boy” is to squared up with Ghanaian Success
Tetteh “Brave Warrior’’ for 12 Rounds ABU Lightweight title defence. Other fights include eight rounds lightweight title challenge between Taiwo Agbaje “Esepo’’ and Micheal Jacob “Holy Mike’’. Rilwan Babatunde “’Babyface’’ will be making a comeback against
Ganiyu Kolawole “Energy’’ in a eight rounds National Welterweight
challenge. Morufu Owolabi, “Oloke’’ is getting his first professional fight with
another first timer, Jamiyu Akande “Sunshine’’ in four rounds National
Lightweight challenge. Isaac Chukwudi, “I-star’’, another new kid on the block will engage
Jubril Olalekan “Terrible’’ in their four rounds National Welterweight
challenge. Fast punching Rilwan Oyekola will seek to outpunch Taofeek Bisuga
“Taozon’’ in a 12 round National Super Featherweight title bout. Young and dynamic Adeyemi Opeyemi, “Sense’’, who is getting his third
fight in the GOtv Boxing fight night is up against Sadiq Adeleke “Happy
Boy’’ in a six round national Bantamweight challenge. The best boxer at the event will go home with a cash prize of N1 million alongside the Mojisola Ogunsanya Memorial Trophy. GOtv Boxing Night 18 will be beamed live by SuperSporta in 47 African countries.