By Salisu Sani-Idris Abuja – The FCT Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board, on Sunday warned 2019 intending pilgrims against exhibiting fraudulent behaviour that is capable of tarnishing the image of Nigeria in Saudi Arabia. Director of the Board, Malam Muhammad Bashir, gave the warning at a
One-Day Workshop for intending pilgrims and officials of the board, held
at the FCT Permanent Hajj Camp located at Basan Jiwa, close to the
Nnamdi Azikwe Internatinal Airport, Abuja. Bashir said the objective of the workshop is to provide a platform
for intensive educational interaction between intending pilgrims and
Hajj official with a view to ensure successful hajj operation. ” It is our hope that  the little we will learn will help us to
becoming good ambassadors of Nigeria in Saudi Arabia through acquainting
ourselves with local laws and regulations. ” The workshop will also remind pilgrims and officials of  their
responsibilities to one another, code of behavior while in Saudi to
avoid falling prey to fraudulent characters both in Nigeria and in the
kingdom of Saudi Arabia. ” Similarly, the workshop will educate intending pilgrims on local
currency denomination including exchange rates and medical issue,”
bashir said.” The director noted that Hajj over the years,  has become a dynamic
exercise which threw up new and sometimes unprecedented challenges
bordering mainly on technical, operational and attitudinal. ” In order for us to address and prepare for such unexpected hurdles with a view to achieving a hith-free and acceptable Hajj. ” The board finds it imperative to organise the workshop so as to
discuss new ideas and perennial problems, while attempting to perfect
the routinise techniques,” he said. The director restated the commitment of the FCT administration to
catering  for the welfare and well being of pilgrims and all citizens in
the territory. The News Agency of Nigeria( NAN) reports that  2,000 pilgrims are
expected to perform  the 2019 Hajj through the FCT Muslims pilgrims’
Welfare Board.