By Chibuike
Nwabuko Abuja
(Sundiata Post) – The All Progressives Congress has berated the People’s Democratic
Party over its futile efforts  to intimidate and blackmail eminent
Supreme Court Justices into doing their bidding in respect of the matter of the
purported exclusion of Rivers State APC candidates from the last elections,
before the apex court. The party
while reminding that Nigerians cannot be hoodwinked and deceived by the PDP’s
antics, disclosed this on Monday in a statement signed by the National
Publicity Secretary, Lanre Issa-Onilu sent to Sundiata Post. The
statement reads in full: We read with
dismay the nonsensical statement by the opposition People’s Democratic Party
(PDP) against the All Progressives Congress (APC) and two senior serving
cabinet members – Minister of Transport, Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi and
Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami
(SAN). While the
APC has no intention to join issues with the PDP over its fictional and
concocted allegations against the party and its leaders, we are however well
aware of the PDP’s intent to hoodwink and deceive the public; and most
importantly, intimidate and blackmail our eminent Supreme Court Justices into
doing their bidding in respect of the matter of the purported exclusion of
Rivers State APC candidates from the last elections, before the apex court. Again, for
the purpose of clarity, it needs restating that the Supreme Court has not made
any pronouncement on the purported exclusion of APC candidates from the just
concluded Governorship, National Assembly and State Assembly elections in Rivers
State. Hence, the
cheap attempt by the PDP to ambush the Supreme Court with their cock and bull
conspiracies should be seen for what it is! , hogwash We urge
Nigerians to completely ignore the evil machinations of the PDP as contained in
their ludicrous and false statement on the matter of the purported exclusion of
Rivers APC candidates in the last elections before the Supreme Court. The PDP
as a party has refused to come to terms with the fact that the President
Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration is a stickler to the rule of law. As always,
we shall allow the law take its course in respect of the purported exclusion of
our candidates in the elections in Rivers State and we advise the PDP to do the
same, rather than overheat the polity with their illogical and false claims. SIGNED: Mallam Lanre
Issa-Onilu National
Publicity Secretary All
Progressives Congress (APC)