By Oluwafunke Ishola Lagos – Mr Olabamiji Adeleye, the Managing Director of Addefort Ltd., says there is need to evolve a strategic approach to addressing the reputation challenges of ‘Made-in-Nigeria’ and promote the best of Nigeria to the world. Adeleye, in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on
Thursday in Lagos, said that public and private sector partnership was
required to articulate communication strategy that would showcase
Nigerian brands. He said that Made-In-Nigeria was not just about products and services, but the totality of what the nation represented. According to him, the firm is evolving a Made-in-Nigeria Ambassadors
(M-I-NA) initiative to bridge the perception problem  facing
Made-In-Nigeria as a brand both within and outside the country. “M-I-NA is inspired to change the negative narratives about
Made-In-Nigeria and set the stage for the promotion of the best of
Nigeria to the world by identifying credible individuals annually
through popular opinion poll from various sectors. “The individuals will be drawn from entertainment, banking, ICT,
energy, agriculture, automobile, manufacturing, sports, SMEs, fashion
and government; they will fly the flag as Made-in-Nigeria Ambassadors
for the year,” he said. He said that M-I-NA was a product of research and public opinion
survey that recommended concerted efforts to promote the best of Nigeria
to the world. Adeleye stressed the need to identify with the quality products from
Nigeria and celebrate them to the world, saying the country must promote
and patronise Made-in-Nigeria products to encourage survival of local
producers. “Government should lead the way in patronising Made-in-Nigeria
products; we need to promote institutional standardisation to get the
best out of our local production. “Nigeria should articulate a communication strategy on how we are
going to brand Nigeria and as citizens, we need to speak positively
about ‘Made-in-Nigeria.” He said that patronage of Made-in-Nigeria goods would boost domestic
production, create jobs, promote technology transfer and impact
positively on the country’s Gross Domestic Product performance.