By Philip Yatai Kaura – Some food vendors engaged for the National Home Grown School Feeding Programme (NHGSFP), in Kaura and Zangon Kataf Local Government Areas of Kaduna State, have alleged that there were plans to sack them over political reasons. The vendors, in separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria
(NAN), on Thursday, claimed that officials of the All Progressive
Congress (APC), in their locality, had threatened to get them sacked
over allegations that they voted against the ruling party in the general
elections. One of them, Mrs. Rifkatu Yashim, a food vendor at Local Government
Education Authority Primary School, Unguwan Rimi, School B, in Zangon
Kataf, said that some other persons had been engaged to replace them. “Some of our replacements have already opened bank accounts and are waiting to resume duties. “The APC officials at Anguwan Rimi Ward called us for a meeting and
told us that most of us would be sacked from the school feeding
programme because we are not members of their political party. “They told us that they want only APC women to participate in the
programme; some women have been asked to open bank accounts and have
been told to start wok when school resumes,” she said. Mrs. Alice Levi, another vendor at the LGEA Primary School Anguwan
Keta, Tum, in Kaura Local Government, also accused the APC officials of
collecting N1,000 from some of them to retain their names on the list. “They told us that they were asked to collect the said money from us
otherwise our names will be removed from the list,” she said. Mrs. Keziah Akut, a vendor at Bondon Model Primary School, Kaura
equally told NAN that the local politicians had accused them of feeding
from APC without doing anything for the party. “In short, they told us that a new list of vendors has been drafted
and that the ministry of education will approve the list as soon as the
new administration is inaugurated. “We are worried because 16 of us have already been dragged before the
education commissioner in Kaduna to be sacked based on an allegation
that we did not vote for the APC during the general elections. “Although the commissioner has asked us to go back and continue our
job, we are still worried because we do not want to lose our only source
of livelihood,” she said. Akut thanked the federal government for empowering women through the
programme, adding that among them were widows whose children could not
go to school due to lack of money. “Others who managed to send their children to school dropped out
along the line. But this job has provided the opportunity for such
people to send their children to school. “We are, therefore, appealing to the authorities not to disengage us and send us back to abject poverty.” Another vendor, Mrs. Doris Simon, who supplies food to pupils of
Universal Basic Education Primary School, Bakon Kofa, said that she
never had a bank account until she was enlisted into the school feeding
programme. She said that the programme had helped her to be self-reliant and continue with her education. “I wanted to further my education after I obtained a Grade II
Teachers Certificate in 2003, but I could not do so due to financial
constraints. But this programme has empowered me. “It has enabled me to secure admission to study for a Nigeria
Certificate in Education at the National Teachers Institute. I will
graduate this year. “I don’t know what will happen to my education if I am sacked. I am
very worried and scared because I am among the vendors that were dragged
to the education commissioner to be sacked.” Mr Bature Bonat, Chairman, School-Based Management Committee, Kaura
Local Government, told NAN that he had heard the rumour that some women
would be replaced, but that there had not been any official comunication
to that effect. “There are procedures for such replacement, but political affiliation is certainly not one of them,” he said. Mr Christopher Avong, the APC Chairman in Kaura, however, denied the allegations. He said that he had no knowledge of any plan by the party executives
to push for the replacement of the vendors with women loyal to the
party. Avong stressed that neither he nor the party at the state level had
directed any official at the ward level to draft a new list of vendors. Alhaji Ja’afaru Sani, the Commissioner for Education, Science and
Technology, equally dismissed the allegation, stressing that no vendor
would be replaced, except those who were either not supplying the food
or cooking below standard. Sani acknowledged that some vendors were brought to his office, but
said that he asked them to go and continue with their job after
confirming from the local government Executive Secretaries that they
were doing their job diligently. “I assure you that there is no plan to replace any vendor, because the APC government is a government of all. “The only ground for replacement is when a vendor is not doing her
job diligently. Those that have absconded or are involved in a fraud
will also be sacked. No one will be sacked for political reasons,” he
added. Mrs. Adesanmi Abimbola, the National Programme Manager of NHGSFP,
had, in December 2018, said that government was committed to achieving
100 per cent success in its implementation. Adesanmi had urged Nigerians to see the programme beyond just cooking
food for the pupils, but as a value chain of nactivities capable of
creating other jobs and alleviating poverty.