By Uche Bibilari Abuja, – The Managing Director, Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA), Mr Nuruddeen Rafindad, has expressed the commitment of the agency to ensure timely interventions and maintenance of roads across the country. Rafindadi said this when he received a commendation letter from the
Management Board of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital on the
completion of rehabilitation work on the deplorable roads in LUTH. Mrs Maryam Sanusi, the Deputy Director, Communication and Public
Relations, FERMA, made this known in a statement on Tuesday in Abuja, According to him, FERMA is passionate about ensuring the maintenance
of roads across the nation as and when due, to bring succour to road
users in the country. Rafindadi said that a nation’s road infrastructure was considered to
be one of its most valuable asset, as a good road network promotes
economic growth and social interaction. “FERMA is only fulfilling its mandate of making roads friendly and passable to users by rehabilitating roads in LUTH “There are many more roads across the nation that have been
rehabilitated, while others are being monitored for timely intervention
where necessary. “It is on the basis of this that the agency has established the
culture of regularly monitoring and evaluating work carried out by the
agency as this is key to improving performance”. He said that the monitoring and evaluation team was made up of top Management of the Agency. He said that recently a monitoring team led by Mr Yusuf Alfa of
Operation II, inspected repairs of failed stretches by Direct Labour
along Yola-Furore Road in Adamawa, and Bauchi-Jos Plateau State Border
road and Bauchi-Kari-Yobe State Border road in Bauchi State. Rafindadi disclosed that the Kagoro-Manchok-Vom road linking Kaduna
State to Plateau and other North-Central States, which serves as a route
for the transportation and evacuation of agricultural produce from
rural areas to urban centres was also visited by another monitoring
team. The managing director said that these roads will enhance the social-economic development of the communities along the road.