Suspected herdsmen on Tuesday reportedly attacked a female singer, Miss Celina Wet in Bokkos Local Government Area of Plateau State, leaving her with severe machete wounds. Miss Wet was said to have been attacked in her farm in Kop-Mandarken village when she went to apply fertilizer to her crops. “She went to apply fertilizer on her farm and met the herders grazing on her crops. “She instantly turned back to return home but when they sighted her, they chased and stroke her with a long machete until she was unconscious. “She was left for dead but when the rains fell on her, she regained consciousness and crawled home,” said a family source. Police have yet to confirm the attack but as of the time of publishing this report, Miss Wet was receiving treatment in a private hospital in Bokkos. Shot on patrol Meanwhile, gunmen believed to be robbers on Sunday killed a Police Sergeant, Mr. Joshua Ibrahim and kidnapped a female resident of Kwata community in Bokkos town. According to security sources, the gunmen invaded the home of a renowned businessman, Mr. Joshua Danladi demanding for cash at about 2am. The slain Policeman was part of a Special Patrol team drafted to repell the attackers, said one of the sources. “Our men responded promptly but unfortunately when the hoodlums sighted them, they opened fire and killed one of our colleagues, Sgt Joshua Ibrahim,” said the source. The attackers according to the source instantly fled with the attacked businessman’s wife, Mrs. Nankyer Joshua Danladi. They are said to be demanding a ransom of N100,000,000. Series of isolated attacks Bokkos Local Government has recorded series of such isolated attacks in recent times. In February, a 22year old lady was attacked with a knife by a suspected herder in Mangor village, 20 kilometers West of Bokkos. Shortly later, a 61year old woman was raped and stabbed to death also by herdsmen in the same Kwata area where the latest attack took place. In 2014, a renowned businesswoman was shot in the head by robbers in New Layout community located few metres away from Kwata. This is in addition to many unreported armed robbery attacks especially along Barkin Ladi – Bokkos road. The highway robberies have due to their frequency forced many motorists to cancel their trips or consider alternative roads once it is 6pm. Authorities have repeatedly promised to deal with the situation but no major stride has been made since 2014 when about seven suspected robbers were gunned down by Military Task Force personnel along same road. Another raid by vigilante combatants in 2017 during an ongoing robbery also resulted in the killing of one suspect. Other suspects who fled were however tracked using the GPS coordinates of a phone they reportedly stole but no arrest was made. Masara Kim’s blog.