By Oladapo Udom Lagos – A non-governmental organisation (NGO), Nigeria Hype Awards (NHA),  has appealed to   government and corporate bodies to support platforms that will promote innovations and creative thinking in  the minds of youths. Solomon
Olumide, Founder, Nigeria Hype Awards (NHA) with his assistant, Miss
Mercy Emmanuel during the 3rd NHA awards in  Ikeja GRA Its founder, Solomon Olumide, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos that this would help in discovering future talents. Olumide said  that sponsorship and creating an enabling environment
were key to sustaining platforms where brilliant minds could  be
discovered. He said this was the brain behind  the third edition of the NHA
awards  held on  Saturday night  at Jevinik Centre in  Ikeja GRA, Lagos. “The inventors  of great innovations of the world started their breakthroughs in those fields when they were students. “Our students, therefore, deserve to be celebrated because they
always excel in various fields such as:  arts, music, media, fashion,
entertainment and sports “So, I believe if we continue to encourage our students in their
different fields of expertise, one day,  Nigerians that will invent
great things like Bill Gates or Mark Zuckerberg had invented  will 
emerge,” he said. The entrepreneur said that the NHA was an award-event platform aimed
at celebrating Nigerian students and youths in various fields. He, however, said that a major challenge he faced in organising the
awards was its  poor acceptance by  the public because it is  still
relatively new in the entertainment industry. Olumide said that most of the funds  he spent were  generated from
the sales of tickets, table reservations and online voting platform
where the winners of the awards used to emerged. “We have successfully had two editions in the past years respectively
and I believe once you are passionate about what you are doing , you
keep on growing despite the challenges. “If you remain consistent with the same thing you are  doing on annual basis,  you will surely improve on the act. “The first edition of the NHA event was held in Ilorin for the
purpose of celebrating creative minds in schools who were not recognised
in order  to encourage such innovations in them. “Since then, it has continued to  grow into a passion. “However, NHA has taken  a step further by recognising creativity in other aspects of the creative industry,” he said. Some of the awaerdee: (L-R) Pope da Black, Sifon Ediomo-Abasi, Davpee Crown and Ajanaku Rilwan Mr Peter Adewale a.k.a. ‘Davpee Crown’ a student of the Lagos State
Polytechnic (Laspotech)  who won the Student Comedian of the Year
category,  said that he felt excited to be recognised for his skill in
humour. “It takes a lot of intelligence to fuse the reality of life into a
relaxing soothing context to be presented humorously to the public. “This is an auspicious year for comedians to shine because a comedian
was recently elected the President of Ukraine.  So, we  have
potential,” he said. Miss Sifon Ediomo-Abasi, a student of Yaba College of Technology (
Yabatech)  also won the Student Entrepreneur of the Year award. She said that she felt good to be recognised as an up- and-coming fashion brand with potential. She said that ‘Sifon Fashion Republic’  her fashion brand  started four years ago. NAN reports that other awardees in the student category include: Pope
Da Black from the Lagos State University ( LASU) who emerged the
publicist of the year. Also, the best user of social media award went to Ajanaku Olakunle,
a.k.a. “Lakes”  from the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta
(FUNAAB). Also, Afe Emmanuel from the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) emerged the blogger of the year. The model of  the year award  for the male category went to  Honest Manuel from the Federal Polytechnic,  Nekede. The model of the year award for the female category went to  Adiani Blessing from the University of Pointsrt Harcourt. Also, the poet and writer of the year award  went to  Olusegun Nwachukwu from  Babcock University.