By Habibu Harisu Wamakko – The Director-General, National Youth Service Corp (NYSC), Brig.-Gen. Suleiman Kazaure, on Friday urged corps members to actively participate in skills acquisition training, which could make them self-reliant. Kazaure gave the advice when he visited 2019 batch ‘A’ corps members
undergoing orientation at NYSC Permanent Orientation Camp Wamakko, in
Sokoto state. The D-G, who was represented by Director Skill Acquisition
Department, Mr Nuhu Kwaghe, noted that the skills acquisition trainings
were introduced to promote self-reliance and encourage entrepreneurship
to enhance the nation’s economic growth. “More than eight skills acquisition programmes were designed for
corps members in collaboration with some agencies to facilitate the
training programmess,” the Director-General said. He urged corps members to avail themselves with opportunities, adding
that collaborations and partnerships with trainers and funding
institutions were carefully being implemented to avoid frauds and other
illegal dealings. He, however, cautioned corps members against unnecessary travelling
and urged them to be disciplined in their relationship with the NYSC
authorities and their host communities. He further cautioned them to be security conscious in recognition of
the security challenges in the country and be wary of their
associations. Kazaure enjoined corps members to strive for national development in all aspects and be part of change agents in the society. The director-general said he was at Wamakko Orientation Camp to
ensure corps members’ well-being and motivate them for the lined up
programmes, aimed at preparing them for the future challenges. He described NYSC members at Sokoto orientation camp as the best set
he had so far visited and commended officials for proper condition of
the camp as well as activities management. Kazaure advised them to put the nation’s development first, promote
virtues and downplay sentiments in the interest of national unity. In his remarks, the State Coordinator of NYSC, Mr Philip Enaberue,
said 2, 066 corps members are participating in the orientation from 36
states of the federation.