By Kingsley Okoye The Electric Power Sector Reform Act (EPSRA) of 2005 and subsequent
 privatisation of Nigeria’s electricity sector in 2013, statutorily
saddled the Electricity Distribution Companies (DisCos) the
responsibility of providing meters to electricity customers and other
electricity distribution infrastructure. In spite the mandate, records from Nigerian Electricity Regulatory
Commission (NERC), indicate that DisCos were yet to fully provide
meters, especially to residential consumers. The inability to provide meters to significant number of residential
consumers, had resulted to alternative billing of unmetered customers on
estimated billing, based on  methodology provided by NERC. Previous metering scheme, like the Credited Advanced Payment for
Metering Implementation (CAPMI), initiated by NERC did not yield the
desired results of reducing the metering gap. NERC in its second quarter report of 2018, published on its website,
noted that metering remained a key challenge facing the electricity
industry. The records of the commission indicate that of the 7,973,876
registered electricity customers, only 3,574,129, representing about 45
per cent were metered as at the end of second quarter of 2018. NERC noted that majority of electricity consumers , about 55 per cent
were  still on estimated billing, thus contributing to customers’
apathy for payment of  electricity bills. Consumers have repeatedly accused DisCos of arbitrariness and lack of
transparency in the method used to cost and assess energy consumed. DisCos on their part, always insist that estimated billing was based on NERC‘s approved methodology. They, however, hinged their inability to fully meter customers and
end estimated billing to inadequate funds to invest in metering
services. But in a renewed move to end  estimated billing and close the
metering gap through accelerated meter roll out, NERC issued the 2018
Meter Asset Provider(MAP) regulations. The regulations were made under Section 96 of the Electric Power Sector Reform Act (EPSRA). According to NERC, the objective of MAP is to provide standard rules
to encourage development of competitive metering  services  in the
Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI), and fast-track meter
roll-out and close the metering gap within the three years target. Under the regulations, NERC shall license pre-qualified MAP, who will
finance, install, maintain and where necessary, replace end-user
electricity meters. The meter asset providers are expected to eliminate estimated billing
practice, attract private investment into the provision of metering
services, and close the metering gap through accelerated meter roll-out. The regulations came into effect on April 3, 2018, and all the 11
Discos are required to commence the procurement process of engaging
meter asset providers to serve their service areas in accordance with an
approved roll-out plan. NERC also disclosed in a recent document, that115 firms had been
granted ‘No Objection’ as at Nov. 22, 2018  to participate in the MAP. NERC said the mass metering for electricity consumers under the MAP policy of the Federal Government would begin by May 1. Dr Usman Arabi, NERC’s General Manager, Public Affairs, said that
the commission issued permits to MAPs on April 5, in accordance with
Section 4(3) of the MAP Regulations 2018, to MAPs that were successful
in the procurements. “The procurement was conducted by Abuja Electricity Distribution
Company Plc  (AEDC)  and  Jos Electricity Distribution Company Plc
(JEDC). “Section 4(3) of the MAP Regulation 2018 requires all electricity
distribution licensees to engage MAPs that would assist, as investors,
in closing the metering gap. “AEDC appointed Mojec International Limited, Meron Consortium and
Turbo Engineering Limited to provide 487,000; 213,000 and 200,000
meters, while JEDC  appointed Triple 7 and Mojec International Limited
Consortium to provide 500,000 meters.’’ Arabi said customers of AEDC) and JEDC should expect meters to be
installed in their premises within 10 working days of making payment to
MAPs. He said the payment and installation of the meters within the time
frame was in accordance with Section 18 (3) of the MAP Regulations 2018. “MAPs shall charge a maximum of N36,991.50 for single phase meters and N67,055.85 for three phase meters. “These costs are inclusive of supply, installation, maintenance and replacement of meters over its technical life,’’Arabi said Arab also said that the commission had also issued permits to MAPs of
Ikeja and Benin Discos in accordance with Section 4(3) of the MAP
regulations. Arab said the permit was granted to the MAPs that were successful in the procurements conducted by Ikeja and Benin DisCos. He said that Ikeja DisCo has appointed Mojec International Limited to
provide 399,790 meters, while Consolidated Infrastructure Group Ltd is
to provide 397,922 meters. “Similarly, New Hamshire   Capital Ltd would also supply 276,699
meters within the Ikeja   Disco coverage areas under MAP,’’ Arab
said.                                  ‘ He said Benin Disco has appointed FLT Energy System Ltd, G-Unit
Engineering Ltd, Inlaks Power Solution Ltd, Sabrud Consortium Nigeria
Ltd and Turbo Energy Ltd to provide meters within its coverage areas. AEDC on its part, said it had  also received the approval of NERC to begin installation of meters, under MAP policy. The  General Manager, Corporate Communications of AEDC , Mr Oyebode
Fadipe,  said the  commencement of the field operations of MAP,
initiated  by NERC was a visible effort on the part of the regulator to
address the metering gap in the sector. ” For us in AEDC, the MAP policy speaks to our overall transformation agenda for greater service delivery to our customers. ” The metering programme will not only engender billing integrity and
improve our revenue base, it will also cut down sharply the issue of
estimated billing, which has remained a source of concern to our
customers.” He said AEDC was currently working with the NERC approved MAP to
perfect necessary logistics associated with the commencement of the
field work. As Nigerians eagerly await the rolling out of meters, via the MAP
policy, beginning from May 1, it is expected that estimated billing
methodology in the nation’s power sector will soon come to an end. Electricity consumers are expectant that the success of MAP would
also reduce energy  theft and  ultimately ensure accountability in
billing of energy  consumed by  consumers .