By Kingsley Okoye Yenagoa – Bayelsa Government has commended  the Federal Government for upgrading the 2x40MVA power transformer to 1x90MV at the Gbarantoru  132/33KV transmission substation  in Bayelsa. Mr Peter Afagha, Commissioner for Power in Bayelsa, gave the
commendation on Thursday in Yenogo during an inspection of the
substation by officials of Ministry of Power, Works and Housing. According to Afagha, the upgrade has improved power supply in the state. Afagha said Bayelsa government and citizens were very happy with the new innovation in the substation. The commissioner said that the upgrade of the substation had resulted
in improved power supply in Yenagoa and many other communities in the
state. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that contract for
installation  and commissioning of the 1×90,132/33KV substation was 
awarded  to Messers Income Electric Ltd. in 2013 at the cost of N801
million. However, the ministerial tender board in its meeting on June 18, 2014
modified the contract to 3.6 million dollars to ensure early delivery
of the offshore component of the project. The completion status of the project as measured at the end of
November 2018, indicated that engineering work had been completed at 100
per cent. Procurement recorded 95 per cent, construction recorded 100 per cent, while the overall completion stood  at 98.33 per cent. The 1×90 MVA 132/33KV having been handed over to the Transmission
Company of Nigeria (TCN) by the Ministry of Power, Works and Housing had
also been energised since July 2018. “I want to on behalf of  Bayelsa State Government thank the Federal
 Ministry of Power, Works and Housing for the significant  milestone
that  have been  recorded in this project. “The Bayelsa state government is very happy with this innovation, the
entire Bayelsa is very happy for the reinforcement of this power
transformer . “The state government before now had the Kolokri creek turbine which was functional for some time, but we had a little hitch. “But this project will complement the electricity we are receiving.’’ Afagha, however, appealed to the Federal Government to construct
other transmission  substations  in Ogbia Nembe and Ekeremor  axis of
 the state. “Based on the forgoing, I am still pleading on behalf of the state
that the Federal Government should  take into consideration the
installation of Ogbe Nembe-Sabama Ekeremor 132/33kv transmission
substations.’’ The Managing Director, Bayelsa State Electricity Company Ltd, Mr
Olice Kemenanbo said the state government was  happy  about  the
incremental  power  programme of the  Federal Government. “I want to give kudos to the present administration at the federal level, because this project was not abandoned . “The current administration showed a real sense of patriotism by placing this project on the front burner . “Today we are here to say that this project is ready to evacuate power to the Bayelsa electricity distribution network.” He said Bayelsa government on its part had shown committment to power
supply by becoming the first state to have developed an independent
power plant in the country. “Up till 2006, we were depending on our independent power supply at
Kolokri creek, it was a 2×40 power station with 400 kilometers of
distribution  network. “But, we could not sustain it because we had an issue with the
suppliers of gas, who insisted that we must pay for all the gas bills
that have accrued over a period. “Government paid about 35 per cent and we agreed that we would get the balance and pay over time on instalment. “There is nothing wrong with the plant, the only problem we have is
that we have not been able to conclude with Shell Petroleum Development
Company (SPDC) that decided to lock their gas vibes. “Once we conclude with them and they open their gas vibes in less
than 10 days, we should be operating the Bayelsa independent  power
plant again.” Kemenanbo said, while efforts was being made to revamp  Kolokri power
station, other private initiatives were being taken by the  state
government and multinational oil companies to provide power. He said the initiative was designed to generate additional captive and off- grid electricity in the  state. Mrs Emontonghan Osaisai, the Director, Investment and Sector
Development in the ministry said the ministry was working assiduously to
ensure incremental, steady and uninterrupted power in the country. She said the Federal Government had initiated a distribution
expansion programme designed to strengthen distribution networks in the
country. “ Government was making effort to ensure that there is power and as
far as we are working with the private sectors because the sector has
been  privatised. “It also behooves on citizens to know that the power sector has been privatised and that they  have to pay for this power. “If they don’t  pay,  we  won’t  be able to provide  for the
facilities that will ensure that power  is made available for everybody
 to use. “The citizens need to be educated that money realised from  the payment  of electricity  will not be used by any individual. “It is money that will be ploughed back into the sector for it to
keep working and we have come and seen that this substation is
working.‘’ The General Manager of TCN,  Port Harcourt region , Mr  Solomon
Uyouko  said the  new installed 90MVA transformer  in the substation had
been  supplying power to Bayelsa since July  2018. He said the substation was capable of providing  a 20 hours
electricity  to consumers in the state if the DisCo covering the state
would be willing  to take all the power in the substation.