[8:17 PM, 4/30/2019] Chidubem: 45-year-old Deji Adenuga who was alleged to have burnt nine members of his ex-girlfriend family where eight have been reported dead has confessed to the crime. Adenuga, a palm wine tapper who was popularly known as, “Davar Oluodo,” owned up to have brutally killed his ex-girlfriend, Titi Sanumi’s family members when he was paraded at the headquarters of Ondo State Police Command. It was gathered that Adenuga had in 2013 escaped from the Olokuta Medium Prison, Akure when he was standing trial for killing his first wife in 2012. He was said to have been granted prerogative of mercy in 2015 after he was caught months after fleeing the prison when a jailbreak occurred. On April 23, Igbodigho community in Okitipupa Local Government Area of Ondo State was again thrown into mourning following the action of Adenuga after he set a family of nine ablaze. Five members of the family were reported dead with three of them declared dead two days after they were recuperating in the hospital.
[8:18 PM, 4/30/2019] Chidubem: Confessing to the crime, Adenuga who was an ex-convict said that he was jilted by his erstwhile girlfriend, Titi. This made him to set the family house ablaze in the middle of the night. According to him, Titi’s elder sister, Jumoke compounded the no love lost between him and his estranged girlfriend, alleging that she was using Titi to defraud him. His words: “My girlfriend (Titi) went to abort the four months old pregnancy she had for me after I advised her not to. “She also ran away with my N55, 000. “I’ve been the one taking care of Titi and her aunt’s family.
[8:18 PM, 4/30/2019] Chidubem: “Titi’s aunt (Jumoke) always made sure Titi and I had quarrel which she used in extorting money from me. She will advise her sister to leave, and when I go pleading, she will use the avenue to collect money and food items from me. “She did it again this time and threatened that I cannot do anything as an ex-convict. “It was her threat that made me to carry out my action.” “I had wanted to kill only Titi and her sister, Jumoke. I never knew other members of the family were in the room. According to police, Adenuga was nabbed at Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State on Monday where he went to hide after committing the heinous crime. Source: Dailypost