By
Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Lawmaker representing
Chanchaga federal constituency in Niger state, Hon. Mohammed Umaru Bago has
informed that he is the most qualified to be the Speaker of the incoming 9th
Assembly  going by all available
requirements and parameters. He made the revelation at a press
conference held in Abuja. In terms of support and desire to make governance seamless for
Buhari, Bago who said he is a core Buharist, recalled that he came to the
parliament under the platform of CPC as far back as 2011. He further said he would
use his position as speaker to ensure that appropriate bills are passed to support
the laudable programs of President Buhari and that the developmental plans of
the party as contained in the party’s manifesto. According to him, “Let me remind
you I came to the parliament under the platform of CPC, so am a core Buharist,
anything that will protect Buhari and Nigeria, I am in there irrespective of
party decision. Also,”the North Central
geopolitical zone brought the third largest votes to bring the All Progressives
Congress (APC) government into power in 2019,” said. According to the speakership aspirant ranking lawmaker, the
North Central deserves to produce the next speaker of the House of
Representatives, adding that the zone is the traditional home of APC and President
Muhammadu Buhari. He explained that if the
leadership of the APC has come out to zone the speakership to the south east
geopolitical zone, he would have jettisoned his ambition and seek for deputy
speaker of the House of Representatives. Speaking on the zoning of offices in the incoming 9th
National Assembly by the APC, Bago said the APC is not guided by individual
thought but by constitution. “Not many believed Buhari when he said he is
for everybody and for nobody “but I can tell you he meant what he said. But
politics is politics and many will because they are close to the president drop
his name for their personal benefit, he said. “But as a zone, the North Central is saying in whatever
ramification it is looked into,we deserve to be considered because we brought
the third highest vote to make APC a government. “We even gave greater number of votes more than the zone that
has produced a vice president and look at the logic- if you have taken senate
presidency from North Central and speakership from North East who had it in the
8th Assembly, under normal circumstances you should be considering North
Central. “If the party has come out to say we are zoning speakership to
the south east, honestly I would have just gone to contest for deputy speaker
if I want to” he said. “My position is still the same and let me reiterate that in the
spirit of unity, we introduced federal character into the constitution of this
country and the constitution is very clear that all offices and all other
national issues must be shared across six political zones. And even without
federal character, I think it just make sense for people to think that integral
part of this union are responsible for this country called Nigeria, therefore
every other person must have a sense of belonging. “We have a president from the North West, so looking at the six
geopolitical offices, the northwest has been settled, and you have a vice
president from the south west that means they are also settled. And you have
the party zoning senate presidency to the northeast and deputy Senate President
to the south south that means they are settled”. “We have put so much on the table so we cannot be over run.
We are saying that if the party in its conscience and the leaders are going to
wake up to the reality and they want to zone it to the south east, honestly
we will support them”. On zoning, Bago said “Who zoned what to what? But secondly the
party is not guided by individual thought but the constitution of the party and
that of the Nation is clear on the issue of equity, so you don’t call people
who are clamouring for equity what is their own. “Let me remind you I came to the
parliament under the platform of CPC, so am a core Buharist, anything that will
protect Buhari and Nigeria, I am in there irrespective of party decision.
Because I don’t even see why the desperation and let me tell you something in
leadership there are two things you need to understand even if you have
preference, you can tactically zone to a region and lobby but you cannot force
on people. “So we are saying all these stories, we are talking about, at
the end of the day will end in an open secret ballot in the chamber, 360 of us
will elect our leadership, so we are not afraid to talk. “We cannot
be tormented or cowed by any other person, our position is very clear, we
stand for equity, north central deserves to be recognised in the sharing
formula of this country” Bago added.