By Oladapo Udom Lagos – The British Airways (BA) has been voted the number one British brand  in the Travel- Airline’s category in the consumer  survey  list for 2019. This  is contained in a statement signed by Tiarhan Oghenejode of Quandrant MSL, the  agency that handles the airline’s media activities and made available to journalists on Wednesday in Lagos. “The airline secured the number one spot in the ‘Travel – Airlines’ category in the consumer survey, ahead of 18 of its other  competitors from the United Kingdom (UK) and internationally,” she said. Oghenejode said  that from no less than  1,500 brands included in both surveys,  British Airways was  also voted the  fourth  in the business index and came  fifth  in the consumer index respectively. She  said that all the voters were asked to judge all the brands based on  quality, reliability and distinction. “According to the experts at Superbrands, brand perception and voting by individuals is also influenced by a range of both short and long-term factors. “Factors such as a brand’s current profile to its latest marketing activities and new product and service developments, giving a holistic picture of how brands are currently perceived,” she said. She said that the superbrands voting process also involved 2,500 business professionals from the United Kingdom. She added that they were supplemented by an expert council comprising 24 senior business-to-business marketing leaders. She also quoted Mr Alex Cruz, British Airways’ Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) in the statement  as  commending the performance of the airline based on the results of the  survey. Cruz said that they were very proud to be flying the flag for Britain adding that it was the company’s centenary year. “We are thrilled to be featured as one of the top five superbrands alongside some incredible global organisations. “We are investing more than £6.5 billion to ensure British Airways offers a world-class service. ” But, we are never complacent and we will continue to strive to ensure we meet and surpass our customers and colleagues’ expectations,” Cruz was quoted as saying in the statement.  (NAN)