By Yakubu Uba Yola – The North East Commodity Association (NECAS) has urged the Federal Government to intervene in purchasing grains harvested by farmers under the Anchor Borrowers Programme, to ensure its sustainability. The National Chairman of the association implementing the Anchor
Borrowers Programme in the North east, Alhaji Sadiq Daware, made the
call on Friday in an interview with newsmen in Yola. Daware said farmers that participated in the programme in the North
east had flooded the association’s warehouses with their produce but
that the body could not dispose of them due to the current low price of
grains. He said the Federal Ministry of Agriculture needed to intervene by
buying off the produce at a good price, to enable farmers make profit
and remain committed to the programme. “Our first challenge now is the market and we have substantial
produce in our warehouses in Taraba, Gombe, Bauchi, Adamawa, Yobe and
Borno states. “The market price now is not encouraging and if you did not buy it
off them at good price, farmers will not have the interest to go back to
their farms. “The Federal Ministry of Agriculture should come and buy off the
produce so that farmers can go back to their farms,’’ Daware said. He also urged the Nigerian Customs Service to do more in containing
the activities of rice smugglers, who constituted a major threat to the
programme. Daware, who was in Yola for the stakeholders meeting on the 2019 wet
season farming, said the association was targeting 300,000 farmers in
the sub region for the wet season cropping on six commodities of rice,
soya-beans, cotton, sesame, sorghum and maize. He assured the timely distribution of seedlings and other inputs to
farmers, adding that extension workers were also engaged and provided
with mobility by the association to train farmers and advise them on
best farming practices. Daware, who described the anchor borrowers programme as one of the
best things that happened to Nigerian farmers, said the association was
happy that President Muhammadu Buhari was re-elected, guaranteeing the
continuity of the programme and other agricultural interventions. “As farmers who are benefiting from this anchor borrowers programme,
we see President Buhari as a father and our dear Governor of the Central
Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr Godwin Emiefele, as his first son. “We are happy Buhari is back and we hope Emiefele too will return with him,’’ Daware added.