By Josephine Obute Lagos – No fewer than 30 candidates have been selected to contest  during the grand finale of the 2019 , Miss Big and Fabulous beauty pageant  scheduled for May 4 in Owerri. The organiser of the event, Fortune Nkem popularly known as Lagarido,
disclosed this development to the  News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)  in
Lagos. He said that the finalists were selected from auditions  held in
some  parts  of the federation between Feb. 2, 2019 and March 16, 2019. “We selected the 30 lucky young girls with big and beautiful curves
from the auditions held in Lagos, Calabar, Enugu, Abuja and Owerri
between Feb. 2 and March 16. “We also had online auditions for those who could not make it to any
of the scheduled  states considering  their comfort, and being first of
its kind,” he told NAN. He said that the lucky girls would be invited to camp in Owerri  on
April 29 for a week of  intensive training and preparations for the
grand finale. He said the audition was really tough being the first of its kind in the industry. He added that ladies with  various statistics and who were underage  showed up at the audition venues. Nkem said that this was despite the  specification that prospective
candidates must be above  18 years old and also be of size 12 large. He said that the choice of having the contest in Owerri was to shift
focus from  the congested entertainment industry in Lagos to an emerging
tourism destination. “There are  so many entertainment activities in Lagos. ” We need to explore and extend the entertainment activities to other
states  where there are wonderful tourism sites to showcase, and Owerri
has what it takes,” he said. The organiser also told NAN that they decided to introduce the
big-size pageantry to make ladies in this category have a sense of
belonging just as the regular-size models. “Beauty does not end with the slim and tall ladies, we have a lot of
admirable black beauties in the large and curvy ladies, which make them
stand out as Africans. ” Though, it took a lot of persuasions and convictions before we
could get  their responses as they felt it could be a form of mockery,”
he said. Nkem, also the  organiser of Miss Beautiful Nigeria, said that it was beautiful to be a plus-size, curvy and smart girl. ” We want  the world know that everyone is beautiful in his or her own different way,” he said. He noted that human beings were created differently by God  hence  the need to appreciate  every creation of God. “We implore all plus-size ladies to take this opportunity and
showcase their God-given talents to the world, live their dreams and be
happy. “The slim ladies have their own pageants but this one is specifically and specially for the plus-size ladies,” he told NAN. Nkem  said, “This is the first of its kind and it promises to be the
best, which will portray beauty, class, elegance and smartness of large
ladies. “We are looking at crowning a new beauty queen who will become an ambassador to plus-size ladies in the country. “We shall build in them the boldness to speak, live and exist amongst others without any iota of discrimination,” he said. The organiser said the final winner would  also participate in the
Miss Plus-Size contest coming up in Brazil and  receive various  gifts. He said that some of the special features to complement   the show 
would include: the exhibition of African cusines,  band stand ,
exhibition of divers  and cultural performance by the contestants.