By Akeem Abas Ibadan – Gov. Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo State, on Thursday in Ibadan, inaugurated a 26-member transition committee ahead of the exit of his administration, describing it as another historic feat. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Ajimobi of APC, who is serving his second term as governor, is expected to hand over to Mr Seyi Makinde of the PDP, the governor-elect, on May 29. “Subsequent upon the declaration by INEC of Mr Seyi Makinde as the Governor-Elect of Oyo State, we are here to inaugurate the Transition Committee. “This committee is expected to handle the handing and taking over of government on May 29 as stipulated by the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,’’ he said. Ajimobi said that his administration was the first to receive a governor-elect and was inaugurating a transition committee comprising both representatives of the incumbent and incoming governments in a congenial atmosphere. “These for us are not just stunts for making history, but a demonstration of our strong belief in the true tenets of democracy, good governance, politics without bitterness and spirit of collective responsibility. “I am happy that we have migrated from politics of brigandage which we used to experience before the inception of our administration in 2011,’’ he said. The outgoing governor said he hoped that future administrations would sustain such collaborative spirit in the interest of peace. He said that the committee was expected to work for a month, expressing confidence that it would impact positively on the progress and development of the state. Ajimobi said that his administration had raised the bar of governance in the state with its restoration, transformation and repositioning agenda. “The dividends of our tripod agenda now manifest in a peaceful, safe and secure Oyo State, which is ranked as the fifth most peaceful state in Nigeria,” he said. The governor said his administration had also made impact with its massive infrastructural revolution, innovative and result-oriented approach to education, pragmatic solutions to healthcare delivery and myriad of empowerment programmes, among others. “All these bear true testimonies to the fact that we will leave the state better than we met it,’’ he said. NAN reports that the committee will be chaired by  Alhaji Olalekan Alli, Secretary to the State Government,  while Mr  David Olatunde, Permanent Secretary, State Civil Service Commission is Secretary. Also on the government team are Mrs Hannah Ogunesan, the Head of Service; Mr Soji Eniade, Mr Seun Abimbola, Mr Toye Arulogun , Chief Isaac Ishola, Dr Azeez Adeduntan and Mr Oyewole Oyewunmi. Others are Mr Isaac Omodewu, Mr Bimbo Kolade, Prof. Adeniyi Olowofela, Mr Abimbola Adekanmbi, Dr Isiaka Kolawole, Dr Isaac Ayandele and Mr Segun Bolarinwa. NAN reports that the governor-elect team in the transition committee is led by Sen. Hosea Agboola, a former Senate deputy whip. Others on the governor-elect team are Chief Bisi Ilaka, Hon. Debo Ogundoyin, Miss Lolade Ajibola, Mr Afeez Adeniyi, Mr Seun Ashamu, Dr Bashiru Bello, Mr Wale Adepoju, Hon. Temi Adibi and Mrs Bosede Ayo-Famola.(NAN)