By Millicent Ifeanyichukwu Lagos – Samuel Ikpea, the National Chairman of the Nigeria Football Supporters Club (NFSC), has praised ex-international football star, Osaze Odemwingie, as he retires from active football. Ikpea said that Odemwingie, a former Super Eagles attacking midfielder, took the right step, adding that he knew when to quit the game. Ikpea spoke in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)  in Lagos against the backdrop of the retirement of Odemwingie from active football. NAN reports that Odemwingie announced his retirement from football at the UEFA Equal Game Conference at Wembley on Wednesday in London. Ikpea said: “Actually, in life there comes a time when one must pull the curtain and call it quits, and I believe that is exactly what Odemwingie has just done. “He must have given the decision a serious thought knowing full well that football enthusiasts in Nigeria and the Diaspora will react. “However it is  a good step in the right direction.” He described Odemwingei as a Nigeria footballer who would be remembered for his remarkable exploits in the Super Eagles and clubs as an enterprising attacking midfielder. “Odemwingie has paid his dues, I vividly remember his unique performance in 2004 African Cup of Nations Cup in Tunisia, where he scored two goals against South Africa,” Ikpea added. The NFSC chairman also described the retiring 37-year-old ex-Super Eagles star as a dedicated footballer, adding that he would be remembered for his super pace, wonderful skills, determination and patriotism. He commended Odemwingie for the achievements he recorded in his career, and wished him well in his future endeavours. NAN reports that Odemwingei last played for Nigeria at the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, and scored 36 goals in 129 Premiere League appearances between 2010 and 2016. Odemwingei who played for West Brom, Cardiff City and Stroke in the Premiere League, made his last appearance as a professional footballer in Indonesian Side, Maduna United in 2017. (NAN)