By Zainab Oyekan Jos – Journalists in Plateau on Sunday commended “Search for Common Ground,’’ an Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), for training journalists in conflict sensitivity reporting. The 3-day training was organised by the NGO in Jos. A cross-section of the journalists who participated in the training,
told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the training had exposed them
to objective reporting. One of the participants, Miss Amaka Ezeh, a radio presenter from
Unity FM, said that she had learnt to be emphatic, fair and balanced in
her reportage. “I have learned more about news reporting in a different perspective
and I have also seen that journalists have huge responsibility towards
the environment,’’ explained Ezeh. Mr Yemi Kososko, a journalist from Channels News, said he had become a
better reporter in trying to proffer solutions in conflict situations. “The training is timely and of huge benefit to journalists. We all
appreciate the effort of the NGO, most especially the facilitator, for
the simplicity and clarity in explaining conflict sensitive reporting,’’
 Kosoko said. Mr Ponsah Fanap, a Reporter with JFM, said he had learnt that the
farmer-herder conflict was dynamic in nature and can be seen from
different perspectives. Mr Agada Okopi from TVC News said the training had opened his eyes to see the farmer-herder conflict differently. Kingsley Chukwuka from Daily Times said that he had learnt to be
conflict sensitive when reporting and also to bear in mind that words
can escalate conflicts. Gyang Bere, a reporter with the Daily Sun, said that he has also
learnt that religious beliefs should never influence our reportage in
any way as it can escalate violence. The journalist from Voice of Nigeria, Ahamad Barahaje said that he has learned to report without emotions and bias. Joshua Yenle said the training had helped him to report conflict
better professionally, “before I file any report, I will look beyond the
news and consider and do a thorough analysis of the consequences of the
news, ‘’ said Yenle. Alfred Manger said reports are capable of inciting or escalating
violence and conflict and the training had helped him to learn to manage
and handle news reports better. NAN reports that most journalists showed their enthusiasm by asking
for more of conflict sensitivity training and also to work in
collaboration with the NGO.