The All Progressives Congress (APC) has taken another swipe at
Nollywood actress, Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde, over her recent remark that
the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari has been ‘‘hellish’’
for Nigerians. The APC on Wednesday tweeted an old photo where Omotola was seen exchanging a handshake with former President Goodluck Jonathan. The ruling party captioned the photo: ‘‘Dear @Realomosexy, your
advice to President @MBuhari and VP @ProfOsinbajo on ensuring ‘adequate
money in circulation,’ amongst others, has been noted and being looked
into. We thank you for your interest in seeing this admin succeeds.’’ Recall
that the actress had in a tweet on Sunday decried the “lack of money in
circulation’’ under the current administration, just as she condemned
the Federal Government’s alleged failure to put an end to recent
killings of citizens by operatives of security agencies in the country. She had warned that unless something is done urgently to address the points she raised, the country may soon ‘‘implode’’.
RELATED ‘‘The Country Under your watch is Hellish! @ProfOsinbajo
@MBuhari @NGRPresident The lack of Money in circulation, Now coupled
with the Continuous Assault n Killings by Uniformed men’ll make this
Country implode!!!It’s Unbearable! Do something! Insecurity! Fear and
Desperation everywhere,’’ she had tweeted. In its response, suggested that only those who are not working for ‘‘clean money’’ are lamenting paucity of funds under President Buhari’s administration. ‘‘Madam Omotola those who are working for CLEAN money are not
complaining and will never refer our dear country as ‘hellish’. In Kano
State alone, from 2015 to 2018, no fewer than 200 medium and small scale
rice milling centres emerged. For that, billions circulated among
millions,’’ Buhari’s Personal Assistant on New Media, Bashir Ahmed,
tweeted on Tuesday. In a follow-up response, Omotola wrote directly under Ahmed’s tweet:
‘‘As long as you’re not insinuating that I am not working CLEAN for my
money… I hear you. It’s good that there are some progress… Do you truly
want to say you don’t see all that’s really wrong? Can we fight for our
future in truth for once? Without being partisan?’’ Again, the President’s personal assistant responded to the actress:
‘‘there are problems, and some have been with us since 1950s. Yes, I am
partisan and I replied you because you mentioned @MBuhari and
@ProfOsinbajo’s govt which I am working in. We as Nigerians, can you
honestly say we are all acting like we have problems? Do we really pay
taxes?’’ he queried. One Ayinde Adepegba (@AyindeAdepegba) had in his contribution to the
Twitter thread asked why the actress failed to understand with the
Buhari government on the situation of the country’s economy.‏ Adepegba said, “As a young person, I find it slightly offensive that
Omotola doesn’t understand how everything is (working) in the country
and she is claiming to know everything. Pls keep your opinion to
yourself, We have faith in this govt and we believe it will be the
Change and the future we need.’’ Responding to the twitter user, the actress said: ‘‘No I don’t claim to. If you’ve been following, part of my suggestion is for us to be carried along. See , your opinion mattered…everyone’s opinion does. Just speak with decorum.’’(The Whistler)