…Hon. Bago Still Very Much in the Race By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Bago Campaign Organisation has reiterated that the Speakership hopeful, Hon. Mohammed Umaru Bago is still very much in contention to lead the 9th House of Representatives. The group in a statement signed by Hon. Victor Afam Ogene sent to Sundiata Post, disclosed this while reacting to scaremongering tactics of some persons who gleefully dish out falsehood to the effect that Hon. Bago has stepped down from the race. The statement reads in full: Following persistent inquiries from members-elect, journalists and members of the public, we wish to clarify that our Speakership hopeful, Hon. Mohammed Umaru Bago is still very much in contention to lead the 9th House of Representatives, billed for inauguration in June, 2019. We denounce the scaremongering tactics of some persons who gleefully dish out falsehood to the effect that Hon. Bago has stepped down from the race so as to distract our campaign. Such insidious disposition besides being malicious, untrue and unbecoming has never really assisted anyone ascend an unmerited position. For the avoidance of any doubt, Hon. Bago is in the Speakership race not merely driven by personal ambition, but instead propelled by the aspiration and quest of his people of the North central zone for inclusiveness in governance. For us, therefore, the task ahead requires the tenacity of a marathon runner, and any thought of quitting only looms large in the infantile imagination of those who wish Hon. Bago were not in the field. Having being clearheaded about the injustice against the North central, we reiterate that the only redress possible is a Bago victory – a feat which by the grace of God, and the increasing number of converts to our cause, we shall achieve. We are not unaware of the alleged endorsement of the party’s position by some lawmakers from Niger state. But while we cannot deny them their democratic right, we insist that the ultimate decision rest with all 360 members on inauguration day. Signed: Hon. Victor Afam Ogene For: Bago Campaign Organisation 