By Nathan Nwakamma The Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) on Sunday rounded off its skills training and empowered 30 physically-challenged persons in Bayelsa. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the NDDC-funded programmed was implemented by a Non Governmental Organisation, Potters Heritage Foundation (PHF). The 30 beneficiaries were trained on bead making, shoe making, photography, GSM repairs, make up, confectionary and wig making. Speaking at the closing ceremony held in Yenagoa, the facilitator of the skills training, Mrs Akeghayifa Diffa, said the event was to empower people living with disabilities. She said that providing them with relevant skills to make a living for themselves would assist them and position them better to contribute in developing the society. “At the end of the training we want to see persons living with disabilities doing things on their own, making a living out of the skills they have acquired here. “Most of them are so happy and have promised to take full advantage of the training,” she said. She said no fewer than 30 persons living with disabilities participated in the training and would get starter kits from the NDDC to begin their businesses. Mr Sokari Aspila, Chairman, Association of Persons with Disabilities in the Niger Delta, applauded the NDDC for remembering the members, adding that the training was a lifeline and rekindled their hopes. He explained that the training afforded them the opportunity to learn certain skills for their own development. Aspila, who commended the facilitator of the training programme, said this was the first time NDDC was conducting such training for the physically-challenged persons. “This programme is an eye-opener and gives an opportunity to learning certain skills especially developed for persons with disability; the curriculum is great as it is practically-oriented. “I thank the NDDC on behalf of the beneficiaries because this is the first time we are having this kind of training since its existence,” he said.