By Huseyn Abubakar Mbar. Bauchi – The Governorship, National and State Assembly Election Petition Tribunal in Bauchi State has fixed Monday, to cfor commencement of pre-hearing conference into petitions filed before it. In a statement, Alhaji Bello Abdullahi, Secretary to the tribunal,  said that 31 petitions would be heard by the tribunal. “We have four petitions for the governorship, 12 petitions for the
state assembly, seven petitions for the senate and eight petitions for
the house of representatives, to be heard” Abdullahi said. NAN reports that the petitions included those separately filed by
three Political Parties challenging the election of Sen. Bala Mohammed
of the People’s democratic Party (PDP), as governor-elect. The parties are the Action Peoples Party (APP), Peoples Democratic Movement (PDM) and All Progressive Congress (PDP). Mohammed polled 515,113 votes to defeat his closest rivals the
outgoing Governor of the state, Mohammed Abubakar of the (APC) who
scored 500,325 votes. The three parties are seeking the tribunal to nullify the declaration
of Mohammed by the electoral body as the winner of the Just concluded
election due to alleged noncompliance with the Electoral Act 2010 as
amended. The APP in its petition, alleged that it fielded Alhaji Gumi Umaru
and Sani Umaru as Governorship and deputy Governorship candidate
respectively but discovered on election day that the two candidates were
excluded in the ballot papers. The Party explained that it initially submitted the name of one
Kabiru Isiyaku as its governorship candidate but who later turned down
the nomination and was substituted with Gumi but the electoral
unlawfully excluded its candidate. The party is, therefore, urging the tribunal to nullify the entire
election and order for fresh election to enable their candidates be
accommodated. The Peoples Democratic Movement (PDM) in its petition said the
electoral body excluded names of its candidates, logo of the party in
the ballot papers , election materials and all other documents used
during the governorship election in the State. It, therefore, asking the tribunal to nullify the entire election and
order for fresh election to enable its candidate, Ahmed Iliyasu who met
all requirements spilled out by the electoral body participate. The outgoing State Governor, Mohammed Abubakar and APC in their
petition, refused to concede defeat, alleging wide spread irregularities
and saying he hoped the checks on disputed ballots of Bogoro, Bauchi
and Tafawa Balewa Councils would overturn the results in his favour. Abubakar complained about other expects of the elections including
how results in the three councils were tallied which culminated in the
final scores in forms EC8E where former FCT minister was declared winner
was in correct. He, therefore, want the tribunal to declare him as winner of the
election or as a consequence to order for conduct of fresh election for
the office of the governor in the affected areas.