An 11-year-old girl (names withheld) has been confirmed to be four months pregnant after she was allegedly raped by one Frank and his friend, now at large in Ovwian Community in Udu Local Government Area of Delta State. A copy of the four months pregnancy test conducted by Jobire Medical Diagnostic Laboratories on April 18 was obtained by DAILY POST on Wednesday. It was learnt that the girl kept quiet and did not report the rape incident to anyone at home until her own mother noticed pregnancy symptoms in her. This development made the mother to take her for laboratory test wherein it was confirmed that she was pregnant. DAILY POST gathered that the girl was allegedly accosted by Frank and his friend on Saturday, January 26. They allegedly threatened to stab her to death if she dares raised alarm just as they dragged her to a house and ordered that she remove her clothes before Frank raped the girl while his friend who stood by the door in the house to watch. It was at the time the laboratory test was released that the girl explained how the incident occurred to her parents. A statement signed by the Victim’s inlaw/surrogate father, Mr. Michael George and Comrade Israel Joe, a human rights activist, demanded that the suspects be immediately arrested and prosecuted by the Police. “We have heard how the parents try to hide the suspects from facing justice. The prosecution of the suspects and bringing them to justice in line with the law is our paramount call.” They also said that the Ovwian Community leaders do not have the rights to settle the matter. They also warned that if they insists or prevail on the police, they will also be charged for “compound felony.” The Burutu Area Commander of the Nigeria Police Force, ACP Ikiriovbe Marvellous Pule said, “Yes, it’s true. I have sent a report to the PPRO. Please, liaise with the PPRO for the report.” Contacted, the Substantive Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya said, “For now, you cannot call that rape. A rape case is that which is reported within 48 hours and with medical report. “It’s just sad that the girl is underage.” 