By Clara Egbogota Lagos – Archbishop Alfred Adewale Martins has approved the appointment of  Rev. Fr. Anthony  Godonu as the acting Director of Social Communications for  the Catholic Archdiocese. The statement quoted the archbishop as saying that  Fr. Godonu had
replaced Very Rev. Msgr Gabriel Osu  with effect from April 1. The archbishop commended Msgr Osu for serving  the Archdiocese
meritoriously as its Director of Social Communications for no less than
two decades. Archbishop Adewale Martins said this in a press statement released
from the archbishop’s chancery on Monday and made available to newsmen. The statement also said that Godonu was in Rome, Italy between June
2011 and August 2012 as a post graduate student where he bagged his
Masters degree in Social Communications. He returned to the country in August 2012, it said. It added that Fr Godonu was born on March 23, 1976 to the family of
late Mr and Mrs Roger and Celestina Godonu of Porto-Novo, from the
Republic of Benin. It said that the acting director grew up in Badagry,  had his primary
school education at Our Lady of Apostles’ (O.L.A.) Primary School from
1984 to 1990. It added that he also attended  Badagry Grammar School (B.G.S) from 1990 to 1996. The statement said that he gained admission into St. John of the
Cross Seminary, Ekpoma in Edo, for his one-year spiritual experience (a
kind of preparatory year for the priestly training proper) in January
1998. He was also admitted into the Major Seminary of All Saints,
Uhiele-Ekpoma, Edo, in October 1998 for his philosophical and
theological studies. He also bagged his Bachelor of Art degree (B.A. Hons) in Philosophy from the University of Benin in 2002. In 2006, he bagged another Bachelor’s degree in Sacred Theology
(B.Th.) from the Pontifical Urban University, Rome, Italy, it said. The statement said, ”On Dec. 1, 2005, he was raised to the Diaconate
alongside some of his classmates by his Eminence, Anthony Cardinal
Okogie at the Seminary of All Saints, Uhiele, Ekpoma, Edo. ”On Dec. 9, 2006, he and five other deacons were ordained  priests of
the Catholic Church  by Anthony Cardinal Okogie, the then Archbishop of
Lagos at St. Mary’s Catholic Church, Ajegunle, Lagos.’’ The statement said that since his ordination, Fr. Godonu had
performed  his pastoral duties at: Our Lady of the Holy Rosary Catholic
Church, Ogba, Immaculate Conception Catholic Church, Ibonwon, Epe, St.
Paul’s Catholic Church, Ebute-Meta. Other parishes where he had served also include: St. Mary’s Catholic
Church, Ajegunle, St. Margaret’s Catholic Church, Olodi, Apapa, and  St.
Gerald’s Catholic Church, Soluyi, Gbagada. Fr. Godonu is currently the Priest-in-Charge of the Catholic Church of the Presentation, Festac Town, Lagos,” he said.