– The film star slammed comedienne Helen Paul for supporting the marriage, – Maduagwu wondered if Helen would agree for her 19-year-old son to marry a 59-year-old woman In recent times the alleged marriage between teenage film star, Regina Daniels and billionaire politician, Ned Nwoko, has taken over the Nigerian social media. After the news of the alleged union hit the internet, a number of people have taken to airing their views. Some people, including comedienne, Helen Paul, showed their support for the actress. Actor Uche Maduagwu slams Helen Paul for supporting Regina Daniel’s marriage Actor Uche Maduagwu slams Helen Paul for supporting Regina Daniel’s marriage Source: Instagram However Nollywood actor and social commentator, Uche Maduagwu, did not seem too happy with it. In an open letter penned to the comedienne on social media he explained that such marriages should not be encouraged in this modern age. “@itshelenpaul Ma, please would you clap for your 19 year old son if he comes home from school with a 59 year old woman as a wife to be? Someone just showed me a video of you, and I just tried to twist the narrative a bit, to know if you’ll still disagree with women who are against a 19 year old girl allegedly getting married to her grandfathers age mate. There is a Yoruba adage that says “its sweet to watch a stranger display madness in the market”✏ but who will ever pray for any member of his family to go through such trauma and agony?” Nollywood actress, Georgina Onuoha also commented on Regina Daniels’ alleged marriage. First off, she warned Nigerians against pestering her on the issue as she has nothing to do with her colleague, Regina. Georgina then went on to make a case for the teenager by saying that whatever she did was her choice to make and no one else’s. Georgina slammed Nigerians for focusing on issues that were not exactly the problems of the country. For Georgina, a teenager who decides to become a bride (and whose decision was endorsed by her mother) should not be the concern of citizens.(legit.ng) 