Taipei – Chinese bombers and warships conducted drills around Taiwan on Monday, the latest military maneuvers near the self-ruled island that a senior U.S. official denounced as “coercion” and a threat to stability in the region. The U.S. has no formal ties with Taiwan but is bound by law to help
provide the island with the means to defend itself and is its main
source of arms. China has stepped up pressure on Taiwan, whose President Tsai Ing-wen
Beijing suspects of pushing for the island’s formal independence, a red
line for China which has never renounced the use of force to bring
Taiwan under its control. “Any attempt to influence Taiwan through threats or coercion, we
believe, destabilises the region and threatens stability in the Taiwan
Strait,” James Moriarty, chairman of the American Institute in Taiwan,
said. Moriarty said this at a ceremony to mark the last four decades of U.S.-Taiwan relations. China’s People’s Liberation Army said its warships, bombers and
reconnaissance aircraft had conducted “necessary drills” around Taiwan
on Monday, although it described them as routine. China has repeatedly carried out what it calls “island encirclement patrols” in the past few years. Taiwan scrambled jets and ships to monitor the Chinese forces, its
defense ministry said, accusing Beijing of “trying to change the status
quo of the Taiwan Strait.” Moriarty said “flying fighter jets and bombers around the island,
presumably in connection with what we are doing this afternoon,
certainly does not help at all. “It hurts stability. It damages the cross strait relationship. “It damages any attempt by China to win the hearts and minds of
Taiwan people,” he told reporters at the institute’s new $256 million
facility, the de facto U.S. embassy in Taiwan. A delegation led by former U.S. speaker of the House of
Representatives, Paul Ryan, was in Taipei to mark 40 years since the
signing of the Taiwan Relations Act, which governs U.S.-Taiwan
relations, and to reaffirm Washington’s commitment. “We couldn’t ask for a better friend than Taiwan. Taiwan is a
democratic success story, a reliable partner, and a force for good in
the world,” Ryan said. “We want the rest of the world to be more like
Taiwan.” Tsai, who says she wants to maintain the status quo with China but
will defend Taiwan’s security and democracy, said at the ceremony that
China has been ramping up military threats against Taiwan. The visit by U.S. officials comes just weeks after Tsai said the U.S.
was responding positively to Taipei’s requests for new arms sales to
bolster its defences in the face of growing pressure from China. Last month, Washington sent Navy and Coast Guard ships through the
narrow strait separating the island from the mainland, part of an
increase in the frequency of U.S. movement through the strategic
waterway to show support for Taipei.