… As Agency Continues Donation of Relief Materials …Ondo State Government Hails Agency The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has continued its donation of relief materials to victims affected by flood and other disasters across the country. The Agency took the exercise to Akure in Ondo state where various items were donated to the Ondo State Government for onward distribution to affected citizens. Speaking during the presentation of the materials in Akure, the Director General of NIMASA Dr. Dakuku Peterside stated that in line with the Agency’s policy on Corporate Social Responsibility, NIMASA would continue to provide support for victims of natural and man-made disasters across the country. The Director General who was represented by the Agency’s Director, Western Zonal Office, Mr. Olayemi Abass said that the Agency will continue to vigorously pursue the improvement of the welfare of Nigerians and the economy as a whole. In his words” We are here to comply with the Federal Government’s directive for all government organizations to use their powers and resources to alleviate the suffering of Nigerians affected by flood and other disasters. We therefore call on other corporate bodies to partner with us in this drive”, he said. While receiving the materials, the Deputy Governor of Ondo State Hon. Agboola Ajayi commended NIMASA for reaching out to Ondo State. He said that the materials could not have come at a better time especially because the Ondo State Government is currently handling the devastating effect of the rain storm that ravaged the Supare and Ikare Akoko areas of the state. The Deputy Governor who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Office of the Deputy Governor, Mrs Desola Alabi, said that the Ondo State Government would continue to partner with agencies such as NIMASA in various areas for the common good of Nigeria. It will be recalled that NIMASA commenced the second phase of the donation of relief materials to Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) nationwide last week with the presentation of household items to IDPs in Lagos and Niger States. Twenty states across the nation’s six geopolitical zones that have been ravaged by flood and other disasters will benefit from this segment of the exercise.