Detectives from Ondo State Police
Command are on the trail of suspected ritualists who killed a
60-year-old woman with hunchback. The police are also on the trail of
the woman’s son, who colluded with the kidnappers after being paid
N7million. The woman identified as Mrs. Rukayat
Abodunde, was abducted by two gunmen who came to her home in Ayetoro
Street in Ondo town, pretending to have come to buy fish from her,
according to The Nation. The abduction happened around 10 p.m, the paper said, without indicating the actual date of the incident. The report said the suspected
kidnappers reappeared few days after the abduction of the woman to
demand refund of N7m from his son, after they discovered that the
hunchback was not natural, but caused by an accident. The woman appeared to have been killed and the son is also on the run. Police spokesman, Femi Joseph, a Superintendent of Police (SP), confirmed the incident. He added the two suspected kidnappers invaded the home of the victim and whisked her away. According to him, the incident was
reported at the police station by one Omotola Oseyemi and detectives
swung into action to ensure the release of the abducted woman. Joseph said they interrogated the
people in the area but members of the family were not showing enough
interest in the disappearance of the woman. The police spokesman said the case was still being investigated to unravel those behind the dastardly act. In February 2017, the police in Edo
State arrested four suspected ritualists over the murder of a
62-year-old man, with hunchback, in Urue village, Owan East Local
Government Area of Edo. The police said the suspects hacked
off the man’s hunchback for ritual after killing him. They put the
hunchback into a jerry can of honey, for onward delivery to a native
doctor in Ifon, Ondo State. The victim was identified as Oluma. The police gave the names of the
suspects as, Ajuma Sunday, 36, Peter Olotu, 38, Sunday Okoro, 62 and a
native doctor Philip Ogeneka, 50. The arrested suspects committed the act on January 29, 2017.