By Adekunle Williams Lagos – The Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) says it has put machinery in place to accelerating the total upgrade of its radio communication infrastructure across the country. The agency said this was to ensure that communication challenges
experienced by pilots in some parts of the airspace were eliminated. NAMA’s General Manager, Public Affairs, Mr Khalid Emele, made the disclosure in a statement issued in Lagos on Sunday. Emele said NAMA had taken steps to replacing all Very High Frequency
(VHF) radios at the existing eight remote sites in Lagos, Kano, Wukari,
Sokoto, Ilorin, Port Harcourt, Abuja and Maiduguri. He said the agency had added six new sites in Jos, Kaduna, Yola,
Enugu, Benin and Calabar, making a total of 14 VHF sites spread across
the nation as part of efforts to boosting the clarity of radio
communication especially at the upper airspace. “These VHF remote sites are operated in a network which will have signal pattern that covers the entire Nigerian airspace. “The agency has taken delivery of the VHF radio equipment under the
Extended Range VHF Coverage, project and installation will commence
soon,” Emele said. According to him, in 2018, NAMA deployed four stand-alone Jotron
High-power long range VHF radios at Lagos East and Lagos West as well as
Kano East and Kano West Area Control Centres (ACCs). He said this backup solution was targeted at addressing Remote
Control Air to Ground (RCAG) communication challenges in the upper
airspace by providing reliable backup in the event of loss of VHF radio
communication on the main system. “Also, plans have been completed to extending the range of the above
stated long-range backup radios and only awaiting the passage of
the 2019 budget by the National Assembly for implementation to commence. “When completed, the backup radios will also have sufficient overlap
of propagated signals to cover the entire Nigerian airspace. “As an agency, one of our overriding priorities is to providing
reliable communication links between the air traffic controller and the
flying pilot at all phases of flight and this we are continuously
committed to doing,” emele said. He, therefore, assured airspace users and the general public that
NAMA’s radio communication infrastructure remained serviceable just as
the agency was intensifying efforts to ensuring that the quality
continued to improve in line with international standards.