Beijing – Britain must get to the bottom of the leak of confidential discussions during a top-level security meeting about the role of China’s Huawei Technologies in 5G network supply chains, British finance minister Philip Hammond said on Friday. News that Britain’s National Security Council, attended by senior
ministers and spy chiefs, had agreed on Tuesday to bar Huawei from all
core parts of the country’s 5G network and restrict its access to
non-core elements was leaked to a national newspaper. The leak of secret discussions has sparked anger in parliament and amongst Britain’s intelligence community. Britain’s most senior civil servant Mark Sedwill has launched an inquiry and written to ministers who were at the meeting. “My understanding from London (is) that an investigation has been
announced into apparent leaks from the NSC meeting earlier this week,”
Hammond said, speaking on the sidelines of a summit on China’s Belt and
Road initiative in Beijing. “To my knowledge there has never been a leak from a National Security
Council meeting before and therefore I think it is very important that
we get to the bottom of what happened here,” he told Reuters in a pooled
interview. On Thursday, British culture minister Jeremy Wright said he could not rule out a criminal investigation. According to media reports, the majority of the ministers at the NSC meeting have said they were not involved. Hammond said he was unaware of any previous leak from a meeting of the NSC. “It’s not about the substance of what was apparently leaked. “It’s not earth-shattering information. “However, it is important that we protect the principle that nothing
that goes on in national Security Council meetings must ever be repeated
outside the room,” Hammond said. Allowing Huawei a reduced role in building its 5G network puts
Britain at odds with the U.S. which has told allies not to use its
technology at all because of fears it could be a vehicle for Chinese
spying. However, Huawei has categorically denied this. There have been concerns that the NSC’s conclusion, which sources
confirmed to Reuters, could upset other allies in the world’s leading
intelligence-sharing network, the Five Eyes alliance of the U.S.,
Britain, Australia, Canada and New Zealand. However, British ministers and intelligence officials have said any
final decision on 5G would not put critical national infrastructure at
risk. Ciaran Martin, head of the cyber centre of Britain’s main
eavesdropping agency, GCHQ, played down any threat of a rift in the Five
Eyes alliance.