By Yunus Yusuf Lagos – The Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC) says it sponsored the Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE) Ibadan branch quiz competition for secondary schools as part of its corporate responsibility. This, it said, was part of  its collaboration with the United States Agency for African Development (USAID). IBEDC’s Chief Operating Officer, Mr John Ayodele, made the disclosure on Saturday in Lagos. He said that the quiz competition formed a core part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Ayodele said that the initiative was focused on educational development for students, especially in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM). He said it was a good platform to promote and encourage students in the engineering field. “We must give the future generation some level of mentorship to aid continuity of this profession. As a corporate body, IBEDC is very passionate about the educational sector which is why we take this quiz competition seriously. “Unlike entertainment programmes where winners get millions of Naira as cash prizes, we must inculcate the virtue of this industry and promote young and intelligent minds. “I want to encourage and express to every student here to give their best and always remember that this is a quiz competition, everyone here is already a winner,” he said in a company’s statement by Mr Ade Ayileka. Ayodele said that the quiz competition had students from Oritamefa Baptist Model College, Total Garden, Oladipo Alayande School of Science, Oke Bola, Loyola College, Old Ife Road and Command Day Secondary School, Odogbo Cantonment. “Bishop Philip Academy, Iwo Road and Adelayo Academy, Wakajaya Iyana Church, participated in five rounds of the quiz questions in English, Biology, Chemistry, Physics and Mathematics subjects. “These six selected schools emerged from pre-competition comprising 36 schools, following a grueling seven rounds, while Oritamefa Baptist Model School emerged winner of the competition. “Command Day Secondary School and Oladipo Alayande School of Science came 2nd and 3rd respectively,” he said. Also, Mrs Angela Olanrewaju, Head, Branding and Corporate Communication, IBEDC, said it was an opportunity to groom young people into the field of sciences which was critical to the development of Nigeria. Olanrewaju said the prizes to be won included a desktop, textbooks and teaching aids for the winner, desktop and textbooks for the second place and teaching aid and textbooks for the third place. Textbooks were given as consolation prizes for other schools as well as IBEDC branded gift items for all participants. According to her, these prizes will directly impact on the lives of the children and prizes will be improved on from here on to encourage more schools to participate. Speaking at the occasion, the Chairman of the NSE, Mr Adedamola Falade-Fatila, said the quiz was an annual competition and had become a pet project of the Ibadan branch of the association. “The idea is to encourage students to cultivate interests in the science and technology fields. We started this initiative in 2018 with fewer schools and less support. But thankfully, we found partners who share our vision. “That is why we really appreciate the IBEDC for coming on board to sponsor this year’s competition,” he said. (NAN)