By Dhandan Zhu As the babysitter’s daughter who became a millionaire by 30, the secret about wealth that I discovered along my journey to my first million is that it’s all centered around this one thing: Mindset. Here’s how mindset is actually the origination of how wealth is created: Excluding those who were born into wealth, hit the lottery, or married/procured wealth without earning it, those who earned it themselves had to want to achieve it in the first place. Not just theoretically would “like” to have some money, but rather “need it” badly. Most people who become wealthy start from this point. At some point in their lives, they decided that money was important and that they wanted some of it. Having grown up in a wealthy neighborhood as the daughter of the live-in help, literally in every single environment I grew up in, I was the poorest kid. While everyone had holidays to Disney, trips abroad, all the toys and luxuries in the world, my immigrant Chinese parents raised us extremely strict where we never had any access to money or material things besides what we needed. I wore yard-sale clothing and free donated items from churches and charities, while living in someone else’s house. As I entered highschool, while everyone was buying Abercrombie, American Eagle, Hollister, and clothes from all the hottest stores, my parents remained financially strict. Even though I worked as a waitress at my parents’ restaurant, they never let me keep the money nor use the money. The $20 that I was allowed to have here and there, I spent stretching each dollar to the max, shopping at stores like Rainbows and Tello’s buying just a few clearance items. Because I didn’t grow up with money, I always felt the lack of money, which was the origination of my desire for wealth. Almost every aspect of my life was impacted by my lack of money. I acutely felt the lack of wealth and how that limited the options available for my life and achieving my dreams. It’s hard to be passionate about wealth creation when you’ve never earned money in your life. But once you have something you didn’t have before, perhaps you’ll want more of it. By college, my family had opened up a bar and had me bartend and waitress. While the hours were grueling from 10am-2am every single day, I worked hard and happily. My job challenged me to deal with all types of people, mostly from more disadvantaged backgrounds, as our restaurant was in a very poor town in the South Shore of Massachusetts. I noticed everyone’s acceptance of their lot in life. They used their lack-there-ofs in life to excuse their current position in life. They had a lack of hope about their future and made no efforts to change their status quo, instead becoming disenchanted, bitter, and unpleasant to be around. I learned a lot that year about how peoples’ mindsets dictate their realities. Since I grew up in an entrepreneurial, hard-working, immigrant household, our attitude towards wealth and money was entirely different. We didn’t have the luxury to be bitter or not work hard. The consequences of a negative attitude would destroy our odds of obtaining a greencard and eventually citizenship rights. My mom had to work 3 jobs in order to graduate from her master’s program so that she could get a job and sponsor us for our permanent residency. If you’re unmoved by money or demotivated by how much backbreaking work goes into making money, then you may run out of juice or burn out, becoming complacent, giving up, and resigning yourself to Plan B. Instead of being deterred by how hard I had to work to make money, while my friends didn’t have to do anything and just received handouts, I embraced my lot in life. I made the best out of every job I was given, making friends, and learning how to work with people of all backgrounds, ages, races, and creeds with a positive customer-centric attitude. In highschool, I worked at my family’s restaurant, and for 2 summers, interned at a bank in a white collar data analyst role. The money I earned was socked away to pay for college, so I never got to touch it. Finally, in college, I was able to utilize my own money because I had to pay for college expenses with the money I earned, i.e. buying books, food to eat, any movies/spring break activities. My mom couldn’t manage my new life in college, so I finally had the reigns to control every single cent I earned moving forward. Once I had access to the money I earned, I started really enjoying the benefits of being in control of my finances and the freedom money provides. Unlike my college classmates who had to rely on budgets dictated by their parents, I had an abundance of my own money to spend however I wanted! I could eat out in any restaurant, travel freely, and buy luxury goods for myself and my friends. Outside of my hospitality jobs, I also created my own side hustles to make even more money. I had already become addicted to money-making, not academic pursuit. I did the minimum required to get good grades, and spent most of my free time teaching my own brand of Chinese classes and becoming a powerseller of electronics and fashion items on eBay. When it came time to graduate, I had grown so accustomed of making money out of nothing that regular 9–5 jobs seemed very boring, low-paying, and un-appealing. Compensation was capped at a base salary with very little opportunity to bonus in all the jobs that would be interested in me, an unexceptional average student. Even though I was a lost unemployed graduate in 2009, at the height of the recession, I never gave up thinking bigger about my future. I didn’t know the answer yet, but I was determined to be rich or die trying, so to speak. In my search for a prosperous future and wealth, I started reading books about money and success after I graduated. Unfortunately, schools don’t teach these subjects! Since nobody around me knew the answer or had done what I wanted to do, I had to seek answers from strangers, authors of books about success. I figured they would be my best bet and would have some answers for me. People like Zig Ziglar, Stephen Covey, Rhonda Byrne, Napoleon Hill, Dale Carnegie, and many others wrote about how they, too, started from nothing and sought answers from others more successful, knowledgeable, and rich to spread the word about the secrets to wealth. It became simple to me: everyone said the same thing! If you could see an abundant future for yourself, truly believe in your capability to achieve it, AND execute through hard work to your plan, you, like many others who also achieved success, will truly create the life you want. The trick is first to believe. Despite my entire childhood’s programming of being raised by extremely penalizing, abusive, condescending, and blame-prone parenting methods that is common amongst Asian immigrants, I had to wash away the decades of self-hate and confidence issues stemming from how I let my parents make me feel. Instead, I had to love myself and believe that I was worthy, capable, and deserving of success. Once I let go of the bitterness I felt towards my parents and their aggressively negative parenting style, I started to see a path for my ticket out of being average: a career in sales. Unlike many of my peers who went into traditional career paths, I took a $35k base to move to New York City as a brand new headhunter, a salesperson of talent, with no idea what I was getting into other than the fact that, if I did well, theoretically, I would earn commissions that could double my base. Once I got to work, I implemented all of the positive energy, mindset, and key learns from the books I read about how to succeed in sales. Despite the odds against me and the tough road ahead, I didn’t see anything except opportunity and hope. I blindly believed that a. I could do it. b. I agreed to sacrifice everything for this job. and c. I would not stop until I made something of myself. I had to prove my parents wrong but more importantly, I had to the find the solution to my life’s biggest and persistent problem – not having enough money! I had to make something of myself asap because if I didn’t do it young, I’d be set back and forever be behind others. The fear of failure drove me to work 7 days a week, 12 hours a day, until I finally made progress. By the end of year 1, I was already a top performer that broke company records, earning over $87k as a 23 year old. By age 25, in my third year of my recruitment job, I was pulling in over $215 in yearly income. Once people start making money, 2 things happen: you either get complacent or hungry for more. Despite having over 6-figures in assets by age 25, I knew this was nowhere near enough to live the type of life I wanted. Besides, with the astronomical costs of raising a family in this day and age (and the age-old threat of inflation), I would need a LOT more money than what I had to live comfortably for me and my future family, if I chose to have one. While many others were satisfied with their job and income, I was still in grind mode. I hustled outside of work to create investments that would take the money I earned and put it to use. I was unsatisfied at my employee status and I knew that I’d never get rich if I didn’t continue to deploy my capital smartly to eventually exit the rat race. Naturally, I got into real estate and stock investing through learning about the business models in my free time outside of work. Eventually, I had enough real estate assets to quit working at age 28. I also reached a mastery level of consistently being a top producer. I quit my job and took the leap to become an entrepreneur with no idea what the rest of my life would be like. All I knew was this: life would never be the same again and I was up for it. I realized when I left recruitment as an employee that I could have just stayed in my role forever and continued to make $200k or more each year through my labor. However, I realized I was leaving a lot of money on the table and giving the revenue away to my employer. As a revenue generator, if I were to work for others and build their business, I may as well utilize my time to build my own business for an even higher return. To make real money, I would need to create a business (high future value and increasing returns) versus just working in one (immediate cash, but no residual or business income). Plus, I was already financially set with my investments and had no dependents or ailing family members to take care of. If I didn’t take advantage of this unique window in my life to go out on a limb, I would regret never trying. I resolved to take a big short-term loss by quitting my highly lucrative job with an eye to increase the wealth available to me in my long-term view. There’s a reason why the road to entrepreneurship is not for everyone. It’s a highly risky, uncomfortable, personally challenging, and dangerous road. Instead of just doing your singular job well, as an entrepreneur, you have to work double and triple duty to be everyone your business needs: the producer, the marketer, the CFO, the people manager, the tech guy/gal, the lawyer, and more. What’s even more terrifying is that the first few years you could do well, and later totally combust! The risks are always there. You have to be mentally ready to tackle wealth at the higher levels. There is certainly a lot more at stake to lose. At this stage of wealth, you’ll need to know how to curate extremely productive, loyal, self-motivated, and cohesive teams to grow your businesses and teams. Being who I was at the producer level, despite me being a top salesperson, I had to massively upgrade, learn, and adjust my style as a business-owner and manager of people. Instead of being solely responsible for the singular task of closing deals and generating revenue, I now added a BUNCH of new roles to my plate, while increasing my legal, regulatory, personal, and financial risks! To this day, I’m struggling to adapt, evolve, and mature into the leader my company and team needs me to be. In order to create successful businesses and increase my personal wealth exponentially, I have to invest so much time, effort, and energy into becoming a better person. This means I have to change a lot of my bad habits, limited thinking, and productivity systems to more efficiently handle my increased workload. It’s a soul-crushing process. Change is hard when you’re set in your ways and comfortable financially. In Conclusion For better or for worse, in my life thus far, there has been no shortcut to wealth. I have to pivot, adjust, take risks, work hard, and persevere in every single thing I do in order to get what I want. The trade-off has been very high. While many of my friends don’t work 60–70 hour weeks, get to have the stability at their job and not worry about business risks, and also have a lot more free time than me to date, have kids, and raise families/pets, I have had to delay my gratification at every step of the way. While I would love to have it all, unfortunately I’m still figuring it all out. Wealth comes at a great cost. I don’t have as much free time to see my family and hang out with friends frequently. I have to be extremely strategic, purposeful, and intentional on how and whom I spend my time with. The pre-requisites to possessing various levels of wealth are different. Of course, the higher you go, you have to increase your tolerance and capability of self-discipline, personal development, delayed gratification, and self-deprivation of immediate wants. That’s why they often say, it’s lonely at the top! At the end of the day, we need to understand our personal drivers, purpose, and true rationale behind the desire for wealth. It can’t be purely material – there has to be a deeper motivation and commitment to what’s under the surface, pushing you to keep walking the path less traveled. Lastly, your mindset must align to your vision and goals, followed by actions you consistently take until you reach your destination. That’s the secret to achieving the level of wealth you want. Source: Quora