By Idris Olukoya Epe (Lagos State) – High Chief Abiola Oluwo, the Lapekun of Odo-Egiri Kingdom, in Eredo Local Council Development Area, near Epe in Lagos, says plans are in top gear to make this year’s edition of Eebi Festival, a memorable one. Oluwo said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Epe on Wednesday. He said that the one week event, scheduled to begin on April 20, would attract thousands of local and international visitors into the community. “Majority of the sons and daughters of the community at home and in diaspora are always in attendance during the yearly celebrated festival. “It is a big event that usually boosts commercial activities in the community throughout the period of celebration. “There are lots of plans and activities lined up to make this year edition a memorable one. “Traditionalist would worship all the small gods in the community, the gods of land and the river would be worship throughout the period of festival,” he said. He added that on the last day of the programme, the people would mark the celebration of Kilajolu Day. Oluwo explained that after the worshiping of the deity, the community would enjoy peace, progress, tranquility, business growth and general-well being. He said that Eebi festival is celebrated annually as thanksgiving to Eledumare, the local diety, for his protection over the people of Odo-Egiri and for fostering peace, progress and peaceful co-existence among the people. The monarch explained that the festival dated back to the 13th century, but was given prominence in 1760. The traditional ruler appealed to Lagos State Government and Eredo LCDA, to give the festival a strong support and patronage. He also appealed for recognition, sponsorship and partnership by private and public sectors. He also called on the Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation (NTDC) to help promote the festival and its tourism products in Nigeria. “This traditional event is an avenue to build a solid cultural platform to connect our present with the past for the younger generation to see and appreciate. “Eebi festival is a gathering of different traditional rites that make Odo-Egiri land and each day allotted to activities of the celebrations are connected with cultural ties that bind the people together. Other side attraction includes cultural dances and traditional music competitions among other. “The 2019 edition will kick off on April 20, with worshiping of different deities and end up with the celebration of Kilajolu Masquerade parade to thrill visitors and tourists”. (NAN)