By Joan Nwagwu Abuja – The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has denied disrupting the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) board inauguration ceremony. Mr Ayuba Wabba, NLC President, who made this known in a statement on
Sunday in Abuja, denied the accusation of the Ministry of Labour and
Employment. He said the statement from the ministry’s Mrs Rhoda Iliya, Assistant
Director, Press alleged that NLC leadership imported “violent thugs” to
disrupted NSITF inauguration. The inauguration of the board of NSITF, would have taken place on April 18 but was postponed to a later date. The statement asserted that “the violent gate crashing and the
illegal forceful seizure of the conference room of the Honourable
Minister by thugs numbering hundreds and persons who clearly had no
business with the inauguration of the board is totally unacceptable. “Government therefore take [sic] serious exceptions to the
dishonourable actions of the NLC leadership and Chief Frank Kokori as
well as his cohorts and warn that the Ministry will not tolerate a
repeat of hooliganism clearly unknown to ethos of civilised unionism”. The labour leader said the union was unfairly treated with the
intention and content of the statement which was on behalf of the
minister. He said such allegations would “not distract us from doing our duty
in defending and protecting the rights and interests of our members, as
these remain the basic raison d’etre for our existence as a Labour
movement.” The NLC President, however, explained that on April 18, he and Mr
William Akporeha, President of NUPENG, led other leaders of the union to
the venue of the inauguration and waited for over two hours for the
commencement of the event. He noted that there were dozens of journalists from various national media houses in the hall to cover the event. Wabba said that the DSS also had its operatives on the ground as well as the police. He said that the fact that there was no reported incident of
breakdown of law and order or the arrest of any person for unruly
behaviour indicated the peaceful conduct of people. “Secondly, the fact that the NLC have statutorily two members in the
NSITF Board, which, by law, it is obligated to nominate means that the
NLC President and all the other workers who turned up for the long
overdue inauguration had every business to be there. “We are therefore shocked with the deployment of derogatory and
confrontational words. As social partners, we naturally expect the
Ministry of Labour and Employment, and any of its ministers or staff, to
relate with organised labour guided by utmost dignity. “Any Minister of Labour who thinks organised labour is subordinate to
him or her or the Ministry is clearly living in illusion,” he said. The ministry had earlier written a statement accusing the NLC
leadership for the challenges encountered during the inauguration of the
boards of NSITF and the Micheal Imoudu National Institute for Labour
Studies (MINILS). The ministry, however, maintained that the persons approved by
President Muhammadu Buhari as chairmen for the two organisations stands
in spite of the NLC protest against it.