By Abraham Jonah Managing Editor – Middle East Following the recent Cyclone IDAI which made landfall in East & Southern Africa causing widespread destruction and loss of human lives in parts of Africa, India has decided to assist Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Malawi. In response to a request from the Republic of Mozambique, the Government of India immediately diverted 3 Indian naval ships to the port city of Beira. Over the last several days, the 3 Indian ships, INS Sujata, ICGS Sarathi and INS Shardul are undertaking HADR (Humanitarian Assistance Disaster Relief) in coordination with local authorities and the High Commission of India, Maputo. It has been confirmed as of now that the Indian naval crew has been able to rescued more than 192 people, while medical assistance has been provided to 1381 persons in medical camps set up by the Indian Navy. IN Helicopter Chetak took several sorties to facilitate aerial survey by Disaster management officials of Mozambique, for evacuation of people in coordination with local authorities and for dropping of food & water packets in cyclone affected areas. It is worthy to know that Indian Navy ships have also been providing fresh water in relief camps and undertaking community service including clearing of debris and repairing damaged roads etc. Food supplies have also been provided to about 700 persons working in the port area. In view of the evolving crisis, India is continuing with its efforts to help the people of Mozambique. To sustain High Availability Disaster Recovery (HADR) operations, another ship INS MAGAR, suitably loaded with relief materials is being sent to Mozambique. The HADR brick loaded on board contains medicines, dry provisions, ready-to-eat meals, daily essentials and clothing items. This would cater for approximately 1000 persons for 7 days. In addition, 500 kg of epidemic related medicines and 400 tonnes of rice has also been loaded on the ship. The ship is expected to sail in the next 2-3 days. India Navy was the first responder in the evolving humanitarian crises in the aftermath of Cyclone IDAI that hit Mozambique on 15 March 2019. Assistance is also being sent to Zimbabwe and Malawi, two other countries hit by the cyclone.