Yangon – A U.S. citizen facing narcotics charges in Myanmar had received official permission to establish a hemp plantation in the former royal capital. Mandalay-based lawyer Thein Than Oo, said on Friday. After images of a field of cannabis plants at the plantation spread
on Myanmar social media, police raided the 20-acre site on Wednesday and
detained John Fredric Todoroki, 63, and two Myanmar nationals under an
anti-narcotics law, according to a statement from anti-drug police. Than Oo told Reuters the arrests were the result of a
misunderstanding, and that Todoroki had been up-front with local
authorities about the project to set up “industrial hemp production’’. “This plantation is an open-air plantation. There’s no secret’’ said Than Oo. Reuters has reviewed a letter signed by a Mandalay regional official
granting a company named IIIM permission to grow hemp, produce oil, and
to dry and package hemp for export in an industrial zone. Todoroki was doing research at the plantation for IIIM, Than Oo said. Reuters was unable to reach representatives of IIIM. Hemp refers to a cannabis plant with low levels of
tetrahydrocannabinol, one of the psychoactive chemicals in marijuana
that is grown for its fibers or for oil that is believed to provide
health benefits. It is unclear whether Myanmar law distinguishes hemp from marijuana. Courts in Myanmar regularly hand down lengthy jail sentences for possession of the narcotic. “There’s never been a case like this in Myanmar,’’ Than Oo said. Police said they discovered equipment, chemicals and nearly 350,000
plants at the plantation, along with 1,804 grammes of “marijuana oil’’
and 270 kg of “marijuana’’. Zaw Win, a local administrator, said he should have received a copy of any permission letter for the plantation, but had not. “Police are now investigating according to police procedure,’’ he said. Than Oo said Todoroki had contacted him before his arrest out of
concern the social media posts would draw the attention of authorities. Than Oo had set up a meeting between Todoroki and the chief minister
of Mandalay to explain the project, he said, but the American was
arrested before the meeting could take place. Reuters was unable to reach officials in the Mandalay regional government on Friday. Todoroki had been remanded in custody and was in hospital receiving
treatment for heat stroke on Friday, but police would not allow him to
speak to a reporter by phone, said the lawyer. “In two weeks he must be brought to the court’’ along with the two Myanmar nationals, the lawyer said. A second American also wanted in the case was Todoroki’s son, who was not currently in Myanmar, Than Oo said.