By Itoro Udounwa Abuja – The Disabled Traders Union in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) has called for assistance from government and NGOs to stop street begging in Abuja. Mr Ibrahim Sagir, Chairman of the Union made this known in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) at Karon-majigi disabled colony in Abuja. The colony with over 9,000 disabled persons was conceived by the former FCT Minister, Malam Nasiru El-rufai, to rid the city centre of beggars and destitute. Sagir said the union was formed in 2012 to help people living with disabilities start their own businesses and stop street begging as it was both “demeaning and embarrassing”. “Majority of us were beggars when we came to Abuja, a few of us decided to form the union with the mindset that there is ability in disability. That we are physically challenged does not mean we should be begging on the streets. “We started the union with the objective of empowering our people, we want to teach them to fish for themselves and not have to beg for fish. “As I speak, we have about 400 registered members with different types of disabilities,” he said. Sagir said that the union needed support from government in terms of loans and incentives, adding that members contributed money among themselves to set up their various businesses. “We had to find a way to empower ourselves as government support was not forthcoming. You may have noticed some of our members in places like Wuse, Utako and other areas selling petty items by the roadside and on pedestrian bridges.” He, however, said the Abuja Environmental Protection Board has been a challenge to members, stating that the board seized and destroyed their items on several occasions. “We have gone as far as building shops in some areas which were later demolished by development control. “The FCT minister promised to give us a permanent site for our market and also compensate us for the shops which was destroyed but it’s been three years and nothing has been done.” He appealed to government to provide them with a permanent site where they can build their market and also create enabling environment for their businesses to thrive. Sagir commended the efforts of Juremi Foundation, an NGO, for establishing a skills acquisition centre in the community. He said the centre has helped provide succour for members who previously had options but to beg. “Thanks to Juremi foundation, many of our people have been able to learn different skills in ICT, tailoring and music. There are 20 persons in each class and at the end of the free training, one person from each class gets a laptop and electric sewing machine.” He urged the federal government and FCT Administration to assist them with skills acquisition to make them self reliant.