By Mohammed Ahmed Kaigama  Bauchi – The USAID Global Health Supply Chain procurement and supply Management (GHSC-PSM) says it is partnering the Bauchi State Government to achieve uninterrupted supply of drugs in health facilities across the state. Mr Kenny Ottoh, the Deputy Country Director of GHSC-PSM, stated this at the launch of the programme in Bauchi. He explained that the partnership programme was to improve the Drug Revolving Fund (DRF) governance and management in the state. “The partnership will improve integration of the supply chain
strategy across disease areas, help achieve uninterrupted delivery of
commodities, improve data-driven decision-making, and improve visibility
of supply chain data. “Provide technical assistance in strategy and planning, forecasting
and supply planning, quality assurance, warehousing and inventory
management, transportation and distribution. “Management information systems, governance and financing, and
monitoring and evaluation, support the scale-up of maternal mortality
and HIV/AIDS programmes in the state,” he said. Ottoh noted that the programme wass launched in Bauchi state because it has good indicators and strong commitment. “Bauchi state is doing well on malaria and Family Planning, but there
are concerns with regard data from malaria commodities as it does not
correspond with the number of cases reported,’’ he said. He however called for a proper monitoring framework before the programme would expand its focus to Maternal Neonatal health. He said the DRF project would support the state in strengthening the
existing systems towards a sustainable drug revolving fund that will
ensure adequate supply of essential medicines. He added that the programme is to be implemented through the State Drug management and Medical Consumables Agency (DMMA). The state Commissioner for Health, Dr Zuwaira Hassan, said that DRF
is key in the drug supply to health facilities especially at the primary
healthcare level. “Bauchi state currently has DRF in all its 27 secondary health and
133 primary health facilities, but there is need for expansion to cover
the entire facilities in the state,” she said. Hassan said the project will help improve maternal and neonatal
healthcare and accelerate the achievement of universal health coverage
by the state. The commissioner assured that the state would provide enabling
environment for the success of the project and other development
partners operating in the state. Earlier, the Managing Director, Drugs Management and Medical
Consumables Agency, Mr Abdulkadir Ahmed, said the programme would
strengthen not only DRF but also address the problem of out-of-stock of
medical consumables at all levels of health facilities in the state.