By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) –  The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has bemoaned the spate insecurity in
the country especially, in the northern states, alleging that it may not be
unconnected with the activities of the political mercenaries imported into the
country from Chad and Niger Republic by the All Progressives Congress. The party
which informed that President Buhari-led Government has no solution to the
security challenges due to incompetence disclosed this on Tuesday in a
statement signed by the national publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan. The PDP said
it is heavily grieved by the pain, anguish and horror Nigerians have been
subjected in the hands of marauders following the failure of the President
Muhammadu Buhari’s administration to provide adequate security in the country,
despite the huge resources at its disposal. It therefore
tasked the All Progressives Congress (APC) to give account of the whereabouts
of the political mercenaries it imported into the country from neighboring
countries, particularly from Chad and Niger Republic during the build-up to the
2019 general elections. The demand
is predicated on fears in the public space of the possible involvement of the imported
political thugs, who assisted the APC to unleash violence on Nigerians during
the elections, in the heightened acts of banditry in our nation. The party
reminded Nigerians how it had raised a red flag on the dangers of the heavy
importation of unscreened aliens by the APC during its presidential election
campaign rallies. Stressing that, it had expressed fears that such aliens could
be used by unpatriotic elements to unbridle violent acts against Nigerians. The party
lamented that the Federal Government has failed to exert enough commitment in
protecting the lives of Nigerians and curb the bloodlettings and kidnapping of
compatriots in Zamfara, Borno, Yobe, Kogi, Kaduna, Taraba, Adamawa, Plateau,
Bauchi and other states. The PDP said
it has been proved right that President Buhari and the APC do not believe in
their campaign promises. The PDP
noted that by every indication, the President Buhari-led Federal Government has
no solution to the security challenges of our nation, which has festered under
its incompetent watch. According to
the party, “This is the very reason Nigerians are anxious for the retrieval of
our stolen Presidential mandate, which they freely gave to Atiku Abubakar, at
the tribunal, so that our nation can have the benefit of a purposeful
government that is alive to its responsibility of ensuring the security and
wellbeing of the Nigerian people.