By Kazeem Akande and Uchediunor Augusta Lagos – The National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) and the Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) have commended the Lagos State Government for the massive investment in road infrastructure. The Lagos State Chairmen of NURTW
and RTEAN, Alhaji Tajudeen Agbede and Alhaji Mohammed Musa respectively,
gave the commendation in separate interviews with the News Agency of
Nigeria (NAN), on Thursday in Lagos. The transport union leaders spoke
against the backdrop of key road infrastructure executed by Gov.
Akinwunmi Ambode and inaugurated by President Muhammadu Buhari on
Wednesday in Lagos. According to them, the 10-lane
expansion of Airport road, inauguration of Oshodi Transport Interchange,
new buses and terminals are milestones in the development of public
transportation in the state. Agbede, who commended Ambode for
massively investing in the transport sector, said that efficient
transportation was crucial to the socioeconomic development of any
state. According to him, the new 820 buses
and road infrastructure will boost transportation and lessen
difficulties being faced by many residents. “Our union appreciates the governor for the delivery of these projects and buses. “It is a welcome development and it
will complement the existing ones to help Lagosians move from one place
to another comfortably,” he said. Musa, who commended the government
for its investment in road infrastructure and public transportation,
appealed to both Federal and state governments to help fix bad roads in
the state and country. “Many roads in the state and country need government’s intervention. “They are in bad condition. Government should do more to end the hardship many are going through. “The cause of most accidents is bad
roads. See the Lagos-Badagary Expressway where lives are lost almost on a
daily basis and so many others,” the RTEAN boss said. NAN reports that President Buhari on
Wednesday inaugurated 820 mass transit buses, expansion of a former
four lane Murtala Muhammed International Airport Road to ten lanes and
also the Oshodi Transport interchange in Lagos. The President also inaugurated the
Lagos Theatre, Oregun and the Institute of Maternal and Child Health
(Ayinke House), Ikeja, during his one day visit to the state.