According to Nelson Mandela “Men and Women of rare qualities are few and hard to come by, and when they depart; the sense of loss is much more profound and more difficult to manage.”  Such deaths are usually extremely traumatic and devastating, not only to the immediate family, but to all mankind.  Dr. Cornell Chikere was numbered among such rare breeds:  humble, unassuming, he went through life, his only goal being to touch as many lives positively as he could.  A quintessential husband and father, Dr. Cornell was a lover of his family.  The value of life is not measured by its duration but by its donation.  A person dies unfulfilled when his or her life does not impact positively on the lives of others. Dr. Cornell wrestled death to a standstill and would have
won in his characteristics style but for the undeniable fact that all humans
must die. On that fateful day, the efforts of the nurses, medical doctors,
prayers of the faithful and the weeping of brethren and loved ones could not
help but to confirm that “the Lord giveth and the Lord taketh”.  In
the words of George Fabricus, “Death comes to all.  But great achievements build a monument which
shall endure until the sun grows cold.” Dr. Cornell Chikpandu Chikere was born on 17th February, 1968 to the family of Engr. Herbert O. N. Chikere of Umukoto Village, Umudibia, Nekede, Owerri, Imo State.  He was the second out of six children.  He got married in April, 2001 to Barr. (Mrs.) Chimezie Chikere, the second child of Barrister Chris Oko Okpani of Evuma Village, Afikpo, Ebonyi State.  The marriage is blessed with lovely children. EDUCATION: He
started his primary school education at Raufu Williams Primary School Surulere,
Lagos State from 1972 to 1978 and later attended Estate High School Mile 2,
Lagos from 1980 to 1985 for his secondary school education. Issues
and activities bothering on tourism, hospitality, hotel management and catering
have always brought out the best in Dr. Cornell which made him proceed to the
Federal Polytechnic Nekede, Owerri, Imo State from 1985 to 1987 and Federal
Polytechnic, Idah, Kogi State from 1989 to 1991 where he obtained OND & HND
in Hotel and Catering Management.   He later proceeded to the Rivers State
University of Science and Technology, Port Harcourt from 1998 to 1999 and from
2001 to 2003 where he obtained  Post
Graduate Diploma – PGD in Business Studies and Master of Business
Administration – MBA (Management). Being talented and a lover of education, he went on with his
educational pursuit and obtained a Ph.D in Business Administration from Nnamdi
Azikiwe University Awka, Anambra State in 2015. 
Being an embodiment of hospitality, tourism, hotel management and
catering he went further in his academic pursuit to obtain a Master of Science
degree (M.Sc.) in Hospitality and Tourism Management from Imo State University
in 2016.  Naturally, Dr. Cornell takes
delight in research and knowledge transfer to the younger ones which made him
to crave for more knowledge acquisition and obtained Post Graduate Diploma
Education (PGDE) in Educational Foundation in 2017 from the Rivers State University
of Science and Technology. WORK EXPERIENCE: Besides the numerous academic qualifications, Dr. Cornell
has several years of industrial working experience in various positions
spanning over two decades. He participated in the mandatory one-year National
Youth Service Corps scheme at St. John Bosco College, Ubiaja, Esan North, Edo
State from 1991 to 1992.  He worked in
various organizations like the Catholic Social Centre (School of Catering)
Benin City, Edo State from 1992 to 1993; Victory Group of Schools (Secondary
School) Ikeja, Lagos from 1993 to 1997. 
He also served as a Manager and Consultant in various organizations like
Ivy Homes Ltd., G.R.A. II, Port Harcourt from 1997 to 2001; Gasel Limited
(Adamac Group), East/West Road, Port Harcourt from 2001 to 2003; Aldgate
Congress Limited, Abacha Road, GRA III, Port Harcourt from 2005 to 2018. In
addition, he held positions on the Board of several companies including
Heritage Foods Limited, Port Harcourt, Befabel Resources Limited, Airport Road,
Abuja and  C–Cube Limited, Abacha Road,
Port Harcourt. PUBLICATIONS/CONFERENCES/SEMINARS: Dr. Cornell has several publications to his credit both in
national and international journals. There are also books of abstracts and
books of proceedings published as authored by Dr. Cornell. He also co-authored
more than a dozen of articles and publications which have been published in
continental and international journals. He attended several conferences and workshops with themes on
Administration, Management, Hospitality and Tourism and presented papers in so
many conferences and seminars. PROFESSIONAL BODIES: Dr. Cornell was a Member of the Nigerian Hotel and Catering
Institute (N.H.C.1.); Nigerian Institute of Management (N.I.M.) and The Academy
of Management, Nigeria. (T.A.M.N.)  He
was also a Fellow of the Institute of Corporate Administration (I.C.A.). AWARDS AND HONOURS: Dr. Cornell was a recipient of numerous honours and awards
including an Ambassador of Peace etc. 
This was in recognition and appreciation of his efforts and
contributions to the society. RELIGIOUS LIFE: Dr. Cornell was a devout Christian and had an unwavering
love for God. He nurtured respect and loyalty to his religion with unmitigated
zeal. He was an active member of the Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries the
sustenance and growth of which he very much supported.  He was a committed and active member of the
Burden Bearers Group and Men of Valour of the Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries,
Rumuola, Port Harcourt and Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries, Kubwa
Regional Headquarters, Abuja. NATIONAL/COMMUNITY SERVICES: He was tremendously involved in innumerable national and
community service activities like Traffic Control at busy junctions in GRA Port
Harcourt under Police Community Relations Commission (PCRC) Auspices and
Environmental Sanitation activities in residence estate and environs – RIWAMA. A very vibrant and genial gentleman, who always leaves a
mark everywhere he goes, he was very much involved and active in the Estate
Administration of where he lived. His achievements in his life time are like an “open book”
which cannot be hidden, thus earning him an enviable niche in the development
of his community.  He was very active in
the affairs of his community and was a very active member of Dozie Owerri, Port
Harcourt Branch, Umudibia Town Union and Ohaneze Ndi Igbo, Rivers State
Chapter. SOCIAL LIFE: In the social scene, Dr. Cornell lived a very vibrant social
life.  With him around, there was never a
dull moment. A role model, a great achiever, a moralist, moving freely, always
smiling and happy, friendly, hospitable, caring and accommodating to everyone.
He derived so much joy, love and deep sense of inner peace and contentment
whenever he was able to help anyone in need. For extra curricula activities, Dr. Cornell loves swimming, table
tennis playing, local voluntary work, researching and surfing the net for
updates in literature, listening to music and reading. Dr. Cornell’s family are proud of his achievements and even
thought it was never thought that this darkest night would come so soon, but as
God’s ways are different from man’s ways, Dr. Cornell is gone to eternal rest. He left this world survived by: Barr. (Mrs.) Chimezie Cornell-Chikere Chisom Cornell-Chikere Tochi Cornell-Chikere Chimma Cornell-Chikere Chidubem Cornell-Chikere Mrs. Cecilia Chimtua Chikere Mrs. Chinyere Ikeanyi Pastor (Mrs.) Osinachi Michael Mr. Larry Chikere Mrs. Ucheoma Nneji Nkeiru Chikere …..  and in-laws and
relatives too numerous to mention.