The management of the Taraba State University Jalingo on Thursday
evening issued a circular directing all students to vacate the
university premises latest Friday by 9am. In the circular posted on the notice board of the
University, and signed by Mr. Imbaji Danga for Registrar of the
University, the decision to shut down the school till further notice is
because of the prolonged strike by the local chapter of the Academic
Staff Union of Universities. The circular read, “I am directed to write and inform all students that the university has been shut down till further notice. “All students’ activities are hereby suspended; all students are
directed to vacate the University Campus by 9:00am on Friday April, 26.” The local chapter of the Academic Staff Union of Universities had on
April 3 embarked on an indefinite strike over poor funding of the
University,  deductions in their salaries, earned allowance for the
Academic Staff,  pension and lack of infrastructure among others. The union said the Law N0. 4 of 2008 specified that five per cent of
the state allocation,  five per cent of the Local Government allocation
and two per cent of all contracts would be used in funding the
university but all of these have been neglected. But some students who spoke to our correspondent over the indefinite
closure of the University said they will embark on a protest march on
Monday for the reopening of the school. One of the students who preferred anonymity said, “The Student Union
Government held a meeting on Thursday but I don’t know its outcome yet. “If the body did not come out with a good plan, we know how to
mobilise ourselves. All departments of the school have a WhatsApp group
platform, ranging from hundred to five hundred levels, and we also have
religious WhatsApp group in the school,  so mobilising the students will
not be an issue. “We are going to use these fora to notify our students about the
protest. I believe our students will respond. If not our future in
Taraba State is at stake.” Asked the state government has not intervened, the Senior Special
Assistant to Governor Darius Ishaku on Media and Publicity,  Mr. Bala
Dan-Abu, said the university is an independent body with its Senate and
Governing Council and are already intervening in the matter. Abu further explained that the state government was also reviewing the strike and will soon come out with a decision on it going forward. (punch,com)