By Ijendu Iheaka Aba (Abia) – The Legal Aid Council has lauded the Federal Government approval of funds for digital web-based integrated system to aid prison decongestion proposed by the Attorney General of the Federation. Mrs Martha Igu-Egwu, the Abia State Coordinator of the council made the commendation on Friday during an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Aba, Abia. Igu-Egwu, a legal practitioner, was reacting to the Federal Executive Council’s approval of N2.8 billion for digital web-based integrated system proposed by the office of the Attorney General and Minister of Justice. The coordinator urged the Federal Government to ensure a holistic approach to prison decongestion, if good results would come from the planned digital prison decongestion programme. She commended the project saying that it would assist proper and timely record-keeping and information-sharing among justice sector operatives if properly designed and implemented. The LAC coordinator however, noted that the digital system could not work without the institution and implementation of other enabling reforms in the justice sector. “To make this work, the government must start reforming the police, retraining them, funding and properly equipping them, because they are the first step to getting a functional justice system in place. “The Police will go to a crime scene, arrest both suspects and innocent people and they will not do proper investigation of cases before prosecution. “And on return from the arrests, they will not forward the case file to the Directorate of Public Prosecution (DPP) thereby delaying the arraignment of suspects and when you ask they complain of lack of money to buy files and do other things. “Such actions increase the number of people who end up in jail and remain detained with or without having any case to answer. “The prison authorities have roles to play in decongesting prisons also. “They should get adequate information of persons brought to them and quickly send such to government agencies that can aid quick release of detained persons. “The courts should also understand the inconvenience of non-convicts staying in jails and stop all processes that discourage speedy release of detained persons including long and several adjournments,” Igu-Egwu said. She stressed that the DPP, on their part, should on daily basis, contact the police, retrieve pending case files and also move quickly to write its opinion to determine the fate of cases and suspects. The legal practitioner said that it was only when these stakeholders play their roles that the prisons would be decongested. Igu-Egwu further urged government to make the planned process to be effective by providing opportunities that would employ and keep young people busy as well as adequately fund justice system agencies. The LAC coordinator canvassed for improved funding of the council to make justice sector reforms complete and prison decongestion possible. (NAN)