By Taiye Olayemi and Nkiru Ifeajuna Lagos – The reigning Queen Moremi Ajasoro (QMA), Miss Adedamola Toluhi, has cautioned up-and-coming models not to engage in illegal activities in their bid to become successful. Toluhi gave the advice during her visit to the Lagos office of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). She also advised the society not to regard models as prostitutes but
they should be encouraged to promote the activities going on in 
nation’s commerce and industry. A model is a person with a role either to promote, display or
advertise commercial products, or to serve as a visual aid for people
who are creating works of art or to pose for photography. The queen decried some modeling agents that had formed the habit of
deceiving up-and-coming models with seemingly attractive but illegal
activities under the pretext of making them become successful. Toluhi, also a model, urged  other models not to trade their dignity
and integrity for instant success, saying success could only be achieved
through hard work and dedication. “ As women, we are supposed to maintain our dignity and integrity lay good examples for the society. “ I have had friends, who in the past as models were lured into drug
trafficking and the mischievous agents who were behind the deal also
encouraged the girls to use their bodies.’’ She said that the agents dangled enticing business deals before the
gullible models and assured them that after the deal, the models would
become successful. “ At the end of the day, they were deceived and gained   nothing from such deals.’’ She said that some models had been transported  to some overseas’ 
countries by  some agents only to turn the models into sex slaves. She added that at times, the agents would seize the international
passports of the unlucky models while abroad so that the innocent girls
had to do their biddings there. “I want our models to know that nothing good comes easy, they must
remain hard-working and be dedicated to their profession to succeed,”
she said. The queen urged budding models who had been survivors of abuse from
their agents or directors to always seek redress at the various human
rights firms located across the country. She said that at such places, issues of human rights abuse would be
resolved amicably and this would build confidence in many other
intending models. “I have a great passion for modeling; unfortunately, it has become so competitive and tough in Nigeria. “People do not like to assist models to succeed if they do not have anything to gain. This should stop. “Modeling agents and director should have a change of mind to assist models to become successful,” she said. She also appealed to non-governmental organizations  to engage in
re-orientating the public to realise that models are  not prostitutes
and should not be treated  as such. The queen said that this change in orientation would encourage more intending models to embrace the profession.