By Felicia Imohimi Abuja – John Snow International/Access Collaborative (JSI/AC), an NGO, has commended the Federal Government for inaugurating Reproductive and Maternal Health Policy Documents to deepen Family Planning (FP) programme. Dr Adewole Adefalu, the Country Coordinator of the organisation, said
this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday
in Abuja. He emphasised that their implementation would contribute to knowledge
as well as increase access to good healthcare services in Nigeria. The coordinator, who described the policy documents as a laudable
achievement, however, emphasised that over the years partners have
worked toward the same goals of improved maternal health across the
country, but often times divergent opinions. He said: “This is because we do not have national direction for most
of the work we do and the leadership of Federal Ministry of Health have
been very helpful in the past few years in ensuring collaborations among
partners,” Specifically, he noted that National Guidelines for the Introduction
and scale-up of National Depot Medroxyprogesterone Acetate- Subcutaneous
(DMPA-SC) Self injection January 2019, part of the documents would
ensure uniformity in the work of stakeholders and also beneficial to
women being the end users. “The documents inaugurated which included DMPA-SC Self injection
January 2019 gives every partners in FP space chance to have some sense
of direction on knowledge management. “The document will serve as a guide in our work. It makes our work
uniform and also benefit women who are the end users at the end of the
day. “It increases choice and autonomy in contraceptive use within a right based approach,” he noted. Adefalu explained that DMPA-SC Self injection would as well help the
country to accelerate progress toward achieving its CPR target,
describing adoption of the policy as the drive of the organisation to
over the years. According to him, DMPA-SC will rapidly increase the number of FP
users and reach previous non-users when women are able to self-inject
and at the long run it will ensure reduction in the rate of preventable
maternal mortality and morbidity. NAN reports that the organisation seeks to promote health
accountability network civil society organisation working in both
national and state government to make adequate provision for child and
family health in the country. He explained that JSI/AC programme was centred on evidence based advocacy for domestic financing among others. “The organisation is working to ensure certain policies are
implemented and if they are implemented at the state and federal
government levels, probably the gain of these policies will be seen in
our indicators going forward. “Hopefully, by the year 2030 Nigeria health indices will witness remarkable improvement. “Over the years JSI/AC have been working with the Ministry of Health
to provide technical coordination and support for the introduction of
DMPA-SC an injectable form of contraception. “We are supporting government to introduce it to the method mix in
order to expand options for women so that they can have some control
over their health,” Adefalu said. He, however, urged all stakeholders to put their hands on deck to
ensure these documents are implemented at both the national and state
levels more importantly the grassroots and hard-to-reach. According to him, hard-to-reach areas are the specific areas we all strive to give women access to life saving opportunity. “We are going to ensure that there is a system of monitoring to
ensure that everybody work toward the same goal in ensuring these
documents help the women we all strive to serve,” he assured. NAN recalls that the Federal Government recently inaugurated 11
documents which include Task Shifting Task Sharing Policy and Task
Shifting Task Sharing Standard of Practice, December 2018 and National Strategic Framework is being set for the
Elimination of Obstetrics Fistula in Nigeria 2019 to 2023, was also
inaugurated. Others included the National Policy on Sexual and Reproductive Health
and Rights of Persons with Disabilities with emphasis on Women and
Girls, Manual for Training Doctors and Nurses/Midwives on Post-Partum
Long Acting Reversible Contraceptive (PP LARC) Methods and an
Orientation Package for Health care Providers 2018 ANC Models.