By Hassana Yakubu Kaduna – The Speaker, Kaduna State House of Assembly, Alhaji Aminu Shagali, has restated the assembly’s commitment to providing conducive environment for investment in the state. Shagali said this on Wednesday during the 4th Kaduna State Investment
Summit (KADInvest 4.0) with the theme “Expanding Investment Fronteirs”
holding in Kaduna. Shagali, who was represented by the Deputy Speaker, Mr Nuhu
Shadalafiya, assured that the House would continue to support the
executive in providing laws that would move the state forward. He said the assembly would also continue to make laws that would give
rights to citizens and guaranty security and order to the diverse
communities of the state. “Investors will have a very conducive environment in Kaduna. “We will reduce the poverty level of our state by providing
employment for our teeming youths and boost the economy of our state. “We cannot do all these alone, other stakeholders have to be involved,” he said. Shagali appealed to the state government to open up discussion with
local government councils to also get involved in attracting investors
to  their localities. “I want to assure all the investors and the general public that the state assembly is working to ensure policy continuity. “We will keep working to sustain the reform and ensure Kaduna State remains open for business today and in the future,” he said. He thanked Gov. Nasiru El-Rufai for always coming up with policies that ensure capital and human development. He said some of the notable policies and laws by the Assembly, which
were critical to the provision of sound investment environment are the
Kaduna State Promotion Agency Law, the Kaduna State Geographical
Information Service Law, and the Control and Management of Public
Finances Law. Others are the Kaduna Master Plan Law, Fiscal Responsibility Law, Tax
Codification and Consolidation Law, Public Procurement Law, Vigilante
Service Law, and Peace Commission Law. Other laws passed by the assembly included, the Planning and Budget
Law, Transport Authority Law, Fire and Safety Law, Landlord and Tenant
Law, Local Government Administrative Law, and Urban and Planning Law. Shagali said the House is currently working on the establishment of
Kaduna State Registration and Business Selling Law which would further
provide a conducive investment in the state.(NAN)