Don’t You Women Get It? Don’t you women get it yet? Most married men are not going to leave their wife for the other woman. These men want the best of both and as long as you’re giving it to them that’s how things will be. These men are just missing that spark that passion that their marriage has lost. And they want the excitement of someone new. Oh at first, they really think that they’re in love, but as time goes by they realize that they aren’t as it becomes more routine. When the other woman starts pressuring the married man to leave his wife, normally he dumps her. All these men want is the thrill of being with somebody new and to know that they’re still attractive to other women. They want the stability they have with their wife and the excitement they have with the other woman they want the best of both. Why would you want to be second best? If they’re lying to their wife, don’t you think they’re lying to you to? Of course they are! Now I’m not saying all married men are like this. but I am saying that you deserve better! Why do we as women put up with this? I myself put up with this for over eight years. My married man did marry me, but he has cheated on me too. Do you really believe you are the difference? I did! Even though he promised to never bring strife into our marriage and never cheat on me, the fact is he did! These men are very good at lying and deceiving. They’re good looking charming and have all the qualities that a woman would want. They are manipulators. All they care about is themselves and what they can get for themselves. They’re going to tell you what they think you want to hear. As long as he keeps you right there wrapped around his finger. He will keep leading you on as long as you keep letting him! Every single story here is the same! The OW is usually the one that has to put up with all kinds of bullshit. Constantly being stood up. Always waiting by the phone and forever changing her schedule to accommodate him! All for what? To either keep doing it because she is in love or end it because she deserves so much more than this. Either way, The OW usually gets the short end of the stick! All the other women all say that the sex is incredible. What is it that makes it so incredible? Could it be because he’s forbidden and a bad boy? Or maybe his wife just finally trained him right? If you happen to be lucky enough to have your MM leave his wife and family, it can be even worse. Once his wife and family find out about you, you have now become the enemy it’s all your fault. You’re a terrible homewrecker the kids will never like you and the wife has nothing nice to say about you. They usually end up alienating the married man too. The children listened to their mother and the horrible thing she has to say about the father and the woman that took him from her so their opinion is not very good of your relationship. They tend not to want to be around you and if they are they usually just want something from you. Things that aren’t issues to a normal couple, end up creating problems for the new relationship. Family functions don’t usually go very well. You end up fighting with your spouse over the stupidest things. So I ask you, is he really worth all that? And if he did it to her you can bet he’ll do it to you! Of course there are always exceptions to the rule, and we all hope we have that exception but the truth is we can’t all have that exception. So all you other women stand up for yourselves demand respect and get a man you deserve. I learned my lesson. Unfortunately it wasn’t soon enough. Don’tmake the same mistakes I did. I wasted my youth waiting on a married man only to have him do the exact same thing he did to his wife done to me. I thought he was the exception to the rule when he Married me! I believed all his lies when he told me I was special and he would never want or need anyone but me! The truth is, he probably told her the exact same thing and a leopard doesn’t change his spots. My advice is to find someone who is single that treats you well and loves and adores you for who you are. Married men are nothing but heartache and pain. So totally not worth it.