New York/Los Angeles – “The Wire” creator David Simon, seven other writers, and the Writers Guild of America sued the four major Hollywood talent agencies on Wednesday for getting paid in such a way that the agencies’ financial interests prevail over those of their clients. The
iconic Hollywood sign is shown on a hillside above a neighborhood in
Los Angeles California, U.S., February 1, 2019. REUTERS/Mike Blake/File
Photo The plaintiffs are trying to establish the talent agency “packaging fees”. It has to do with how an agent is paid directly by the writer’s
employer instead of getting paid a 10 per cent commission fee from the
writer, which are illegal under both California and federal law. In recent decades, packaging fees have become the standard form of
compensation for the four largest talent agencies, which have grown in
power and reach amid a wave of consolidation. The lawsuit, filed in Los Angeles Superior Court, alleges that
because packaging fees are generally tied to a show’s revenue and
profits, the agencies are incentivised to reduce the amount production
companies pay writers and other talent on a show. As such, packaging fees violate California fiduciary law, the suit
claims, because they pit the interests of the agency against those of
its writer client. The fees also violate the state’s Unfair Competition Law, the suit
maintains, because they amount to an illegal “kickback” from production
companies to agencies. The four agencies named in the complaint – William Morris Endeavor,
Creative Artists Agency, United Talent Agency and ICM Partners – receive
over 80 per cent of the packaging fees paid by Hollywood studios and
networks, according to the WGA. The Association of Talent Agencies (ATA), whose members include the
four defendants in Wednesday’s lawsuit, said the filing was a sign that
the WGA “is on a predetermined path to chaos that never included any
intention to negotiate.” “Knowing that it could take months or even years for this litigation
to be resolved, WGA leaders are unnecessarily forcing their members and
our industry into long-term uncertainty,” ATA executive director Karen
Stuart said in a statement. The relationship between the WGA and the Association of Talent
Agencies has been governed by a 43-year-old agreement that regulates how
agents represent writers. After negotiations over a new, updated agreement fell apart, the WGA
asked agents to sign a new code of contact that would eliminate
packaging fees. The majority of agents refused, and on Friday (April 12) the WGA told
its members to fire agents that had not signed the new code