By Ishaq Zaki Gusau – The Zamfara State Government said on Friday that it disbursed N133.5 million to 16 communities in Zamfara for World Bank intervention projects. The Secretary to the State Government, Prof .Abdullahi Shinkafi, disclosed this while presenting cheque to the communities in Gusau. The benefiting communities are: Auki Bingi, Badabo, Billashe, Gadar Manya, Gayawa, Gurbi, Kara Zube, Keta, Kofar Bai, Kurmi Bakwanta, Kyarawa, Masama/Zarummai, Rini, Dankaiwa, Sara da Kanka, Shanawa, and Tudun Wada Tsafe. Shinkafi called on the communities to ensure judicious utilisation of the money  given to them for the projects as well as ensure execution of quality job. He said the World Bank, in collaboration with the Federal and State governments, came up with the programme to provide fund for execution for projects for the benefiting communities. Shinkafi thanked the World Bank for promoting infrastructure development in the state and described the partnership as a welcome development. He also thanked the management of the agency for commitment toward promoting development in the rural communities in the state. Earlier, the Permanent Secretary and Project Manager in charge of the agency, Alhaji Garba Muhammad, said projects for execution cut across Education, Health, Rural Electrification, Water supply and Sanitation sectors. Muhammad said the communities were selected from nine out of the 14 long government areas of the state. “We are presenting the cheque for the listed projects, today, to the Project Implementation Committees from the benefitting communities,” he said. He urged communities to ensure judicious utilisation of the money, proper recording keeping and information. The Operations Manager of the agency, Alhaji Sani Buhari,  said the agency would not allow politics, corruption, wastage and embarrassment in the  execution of the projects. Buhari urged the benefiting communities to ensure effective maintenance of the projects to be executed in their areas and consult experts before executing any project. (NAN)