By Isaac Aregbesola Abuja – As the World commemorates Malaria Day, April 25, the U.S. Ambassador to Nigeria, Stuart Symington, has commended the Federal Government and other stakeholders’ leading efforts to end malaria in the country. Symington who said this in a statement on Thursday in Abuja
reaffirmed U.S. commitment to continue the global progress and ending
malaria in Nigeria. He said that as the World marked Malaria Day the U.S. was proud to
recognise its partnership with Nigeria, and support the nation’s fight
to beat the deadly disease. “”We salute all Nigeria’s health champions from health workers to
mothers, pharmacists to drivers, journalists to researchers, teachers to
warehouse managers and all those working to end malaria. “”As a global community, we have achieved remarkable success.
Together, we have cut malaria mortality by half in sub-Saharan Africa,
and saved over seven million lives since 2000. “ “In Nigeria,  U.S. has contributed 495 million dollars for malaria
control since U.S. President’s Malaria Initiative (PMI) began in 2011,
distributing more than 26 million long lasting insecticidal bed nets,”
he said According to him, U.S. has also distributed 23 million malaria rapid
diagnostic test kits, 52 million treatment courses, and 14 million doses
of medication to prevent malaria in pregnancy. “”As we commemorate World Malaria Day on April 25, we celebrate this success. “”As the world’s leading donor in global health, the U.S. is
committed to working with our partners to intensify efforts to end
malaria for good. “”We know fighting malaria is a smart investment to protect health,
create opportunity, and foster growth and security worldwide. “”And, we know fighting malaria together makes us more effective and
achieves greater impact than any of us could alone,” he said. The envoy said that countries were best positioned to beat malaria with strong partnerships behind them. He said that American partnership including technical and financial
commitments through the U.S. PMI, the U.S. contribution to the Global
Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria remained a cornerstone for
continued global progress. “Since 2011, PMI, led by the U.S. Agency for International
Development and implemented together with the U.S. Centres for Disease
Control and Prevention, has partnered Nigeria to support the fight
against malaria. “ “PMI’s transformative programmes in Nigeria leverage and strengthen
national leadership, resources, and systems to deliver lifesaving
interventions more effectively and promote enduring malaria control
gains. “”PMI walks alongside partner countries on their journey to end
malaria as an evolving, but enduring partner promoting and building
their self-reliance. “”PMI empowers every person, every community, and every country to
fight malaria as an equal, valued, and essential partner`,” he said. According to him, this year’s World Malaria Day with the theme `”Zero
Malaria Starts with Me” recognises the role we all play in ending
malaria. “”So today we call on everyone – national governments, donors,
communities, families, faith leaders, the private sector, and many
others – to fight this deadly disease alongside us. “”Together we can scale proven interventions to close coverage gaps.
We can share research, best practices, and data to stay ahead. “We can welcome new products, players, and processes to advance our fight. “”This World Malaria Day, we are proud to reaffirm the commitment of
the U.S. to continuing this global progress and ending malaria in
Nigeria. “”I extend our hand in partnership to all of those who will join us.
Zero malaria starts with me, you, and everyone working together for a
more prosperous and healthy future for all,” he said