By Mohammad Tijjani Kaduna – The Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, says Federal Government’s  commitment to adequately equip the military is yielding desired results. Abubakar said the results were manifest in the targeting and neutralising of the Boko Haram terrorists in Nigeria. He stated this while inaugurating newly constructed Regiment Students hostels comprising three block of cadet quarters and renovated Air Police School at the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) base, Kaduna. The air chief, who was represented by NAF’s Chief of Policy and Planning, Air Vice-Marshal Emmanuel Anebi, commended President Muhammadu Buhari for his continued support to NAF through provision of platforms and logistics to sustain its operations. He said that NAF, in line with its statutory responsibilities, had contributed to the restoration of peace, security, humanitarian efforts and wellbeing of Nigerians. “These feats are achieved through effective projection of air power in various operations, deployment of troops for internal security operation, improved personnel welfare and sustained training at home and outside the country. “It is worthy of note that the Federal Government’s efforts at adequately equipping the military, are already yielding desired results as the Boko Haram terrorists are being targeted and neutralised. “The recently acquired platforms have greatly enhanced NAF’s operational efficiency in the fight against insurgency in the North-East and banditry in the North-West, where some of these platforms have been deployed to contain insecurity,” he said. Abubakar disclosed that the anticipated delivery of 4 x Augusta Westland 109 Power and 1x Mi-35M helicopter gunship in the coming weeks would further boost NAF’s capacity to address national security imperative. He said that one of NAF’s priorities in its policy thrust towards ensuring the operational efficiency of NAF to meet contemporary security challenges, was the development of its manpower. “We are committed to providing enabling and conducive environment for learning in consonance with one of the key drivers of this administration’s human capacity development. “In this regard, we have continued to invest on training while embarking on provision of necessary infrastructure in our institutions as well as massive renovation and upgrade of existing quarters which were hitherto dilapidated,” he said. The CAS reassured that, on its part, NAF would continue to undertake laudable projects that would revitalise its professional competence and yield higher quality output to the service. “I, therefore, urge you all to continue to subordinate yourself to appropriate superior authority and dedicate yourself to the discharge of your responsibilities,” he added. Earlier, the Air Officer Commanding (AOC), Ground Training Command, AVM Idi Amin, had said that the two projects being inaugurated were three blocks 10 x one Bedroom in cadets’ quarters and two blocks of 20 x one students’ hostel military training centre. Amin said the projects were indeed further manifestation of CAS’ forthrightness, thoughtfulness and commitment to the welfare of NAF personnel. “These are also testaments to the current leadership’s commitment to prudent management of resources,” he said. (NAN)