Mobil Producing Nigeria (MPN), operator of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC/MPN) joint venture has unveiled a N170 million investment programme in Akwa Ibom State to deliver “critical economic lifeline” to the people. The projects which are being implemented under the company’s Community Investment Programme (CIP) comprises peace and conflict resolution workshop, clean and green environment project, community safety awareness campaign as well as upgrade /beautification of market stalls and community beach party. All the projects are to be executed by the company’s partners which are indigenous and Non Governmental Organisations and are to be executed within the company’s host communities. Speaking while announcing the commencement of the programme in Eket, Akwa Ibom State, Nigel Cokey-Gam, the company’s General Manager, public and government affairs said the projects are part Joint Venture’s several initiatives to “positively engage the youths, reorientate and inculcate virtures other than adopting confrontation as the only mode of engagement.” The host communities are Ibeno, Eket, Esit Eket and Onna local government areas. He lauded the state government for the peace and the enabling environment for joint venture operations. In his remarks, Tom Benjaminsen, General Manager, joint venture operations decried the “unprecedented harassment , badge seizures and attacks on the company’s contractors by a handful of individuals” saying they are constituting a major obstacle to the survival of their business. According to him, the company recorded more than 25 of such cases between January 2019 and April. He said the joint venture operations are being repositioned to deliver greater value to the community, Akwa Ibom State and Nigeria adding the joint venture partners are in the state for a long haul. Speaking, Orman Esin, commissioner for transport and petroleum resources commended the oil company and the partners for the investment programme but however requested that the budget for the project be increased. Esin who launched the programme also called on the company to liberlise its contract registration procedure to enable more members of the community to be involved. He urged community leaders to impress upon the youths to maintain peace to enable the company to implement its programmes while urging the oil company to make its impact felt in the community by engaging the youths in productive ventures. Business Day