By Aderemi Bamgbose Ore – Some beneficiaries of the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs-sponsored empowerment programme in Ondo, have lauded the Federal Government, for its commitment to the welfare of the unemployed youths in the region. The beneficiaries made the commendation in separate interviews with
the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Ore on Monday, on their return from
the two-week empowerment programme at The Polytechnic, Ibadan, Oyo
State. They said that the training had equipped them to become self-employed and not to search for non-existent white-collar jobs. They beneficiaries said that such training would reduce youth unemployment and restiveness in the country. They, however, urged government to sustain the programme, enlarge its
scope to accommodate more Niger-Delta youths as well as increase the
start-up capitals given to the beneficiaries to engage in what they had
learnt. Mr Olumide Akinrinlola thanked the federal government for the
initiative which he said would alleviate the suffering of the masses. “The training has been an eye-opener for youths on how to be young
entrepreneurs who will later contribute their quota to nation building.”
he said Mr Tola Ayesan, told NAN that the training had equipped them with
skills that would enable them to become self-employed and jettison the
search for white-collar jobs which were no longer in existence. “This programme has availed me of the opportunity to be self-employed and will reduce unemployment,” he said. Another beneficiary, Mr Ademola Arikawe, said that if successive
governments had such initiative, the problem of youth unemployment and
poverty would have since been solved in the country. On his part, Mr Folorunso Omosebi, while urging government to sustain
the programme, said that more people of the Niger-Delta should be
accommodated in the laudable programme in order to curb youth
restiveness. Mr Oke Olajide, while also thanking the federal government for the
initiative, however, urged it to increase the start-up capitals given to
the beneficiaries to achieve the major aim of the initiative. NAN reports that 400 unemployed youths from Ondo, Edo and Delta
benefited from the training on commercial fishery, poultry,
confectionery, making of household products as well as tiling and
landscaping. They were also given some take-off grants. Mr Benjamin Erikefe, the Consultant for the training who also
represented Mr Cladius Daramola, the Minister of State for Niger-Delta
Affairs, had presented certificates to the beneficiaries. Erikefe urged them to make judicious use of the training and the take-off capitals.