Abuja
(Sundiata Post) – Federal Government has granted approval for construction of a
one-million-barrel capacity to the onshore terminal operator of Otakikpo
marginal field in OML 11, Green Energy International Ltd (GEIL). Issuance
of the approval to construct (ATC) was a sequel to Department of Petroleum
Resources (DPR) review of the detailed engineering design for the Onshore Crude
Oil Storage facility to be built in the proposed Industrial park in Ikuru Town,
Andoni local government area of Rivers state. “We
hereby communicate the approval of the Director of Petroleum Resources to you
for the detailed engineering Design of one (1) million Barrels Onshore Crude
Oil storage Facility project. You may, therefore, proceed to the construction
and installation phase of the project,” FOR wrote in the approval letter. The
proposed Otakikpo Onshore Terminal will be the first indigenous onshore
terminal and also the first to be built in the country in the past 50 years. Construction
of the proposed terminal according to Director Corporate Affairs, GEIL,
Olusegun Ilori, is expected to start soon by a consortium of internationally
reputable EPC contractors. The
project is part of the robust development strategy to expand production and
de-risk the evacuation of its crude from the Otakikpo field, thereby reducing
drastically the cost of its evacuation from the field. The
proposed Terminal will be strategically located to also benefit several
otherwise stranded oil fields in the Eastern Niger Delta axis by providing
commercially viable and operationally efficient access to the export market. Commending
the DPR for its prompt approval of its proposed Onshore Terminal project, the
Chairman of GEIL, Prof. Anthony Adegbulugbe, said the development of an Onshore
Terminal is in synergy with the present administration’s overarching strategy
to boost oil production while at the same time reducing the cost of production. The cost of evacuation using the Onshore Terminal will
significantly reduce the export evacuation cost for oil production in the
Otakikpo field and other nearby production fields. Commenting further on the project, Prof Adegbulugbe said the
Terminal will provide employment for hundreds of people from the host
community, effectively linking the upstream benefits to the local, state and
national economy. The Onshore Terminal will be situated in an Industrial Park
being facilitated by the company. Emphasizing on the safety requirement of the regulators, the
Chairman stated that safety considerations was a priority in the engineering
design and that the Terminal equipment would be adequately selected and
installed in a way to prevent equipment damage and environmental pollution. He promised that all the terminal operations staff will be
adequately trained to ensure operations are managed effectively while complying
with all HSE rules and regulations. The traditional ruler of the community, the His Royal
Majesty, Okanma Aaron Ikuru had earlier pledged the support of the community to
the project claiming that the company had carried the community along in its
development of the Otakikpo Marginal Field. He said apart from the benefit to the economy, his community
and the entire Andoni region would benefit from the establishment of the
Terminal. Meanwhile, the department has also approved the conceptual
design for the 40,000 barrels per day flow station for the field. The flow station was being planned to handle the increased
production envisaged in the second phase of the development of the Otakikpo
Marginal Field and serve as a processing hub for other oil fields nearby. Otakikpo Marginal Field which commenced production in 2017
presently produces 6000 barrels of oil per day. Source:
Tribune