By Bukola Adetoye Lagos – The Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB) on Tuesday urged the Federal Government to inject fresh ideas into the running of the nations’ economy. The President of the council, Mr Shola Tinubu, made the appeal at the First Quarter Media Parley in Lagos. According to Tinubu , the fresh ideas included creating more investment opportunities that will increase the nation’s earnings and reduce external borrowings. He  said  that the reflation of the economy should be anchored on enhanced promotion of local capacity, to reduce over dependence on foreign goods and services. The NCRIB boss said by so doing, the strain on the nation’s currency vis-a-vis other foreign currencies would be reduced. Tinubu  further appealed to the Federal Government, to sustain the tempo of existing positive economic policies already put in place by the administration. Tinubu said “Permit me to express the delight of our Council that the 2019 General elections have been held and new political office holders to steer the affairs of the nation for the next four years have also been elected. “It is quite heartwarming, i want to utilise this opportunity, once again to congratulate the President Muhammadu Buhari, and the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo. “I also congratulate all elected state governors and members elected into the legislative arms across all levels in the country.” he said. NAN reports that NCRIB was established in 2003 to regulate the practice of registered insurance brokers’ in the country. The  Insurance Brokers’ President said  it is a known fact that politics and economy are inextricably woven. He said that one negative or positive development in one would most assuredly affect the other, and vice versa. “The stability of Nigeria’s political environment is an harbinger of a stable and progressive economy,” he said. Tinubu said as actors in the financial ecosystem, the council further appeal that an improved enabling environment for business and professional growth must be created. “This must be initiation and tenacious pursuit of laws and regulatory prescriptions that would enhance economic growth. “Urgent attention must be paid to reducing poverty, which has as its bye product, unemployment and poor standard of living,” he said. (NAN)