By Hussaina Yakubu Kaduna – The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo has commended the  Kaduna State Government for sustaining and accelerating the investments drive to meet  World’s  best practices. Speaking at the ongoing 4th Kaduna Investment Summit, KADinvest,  in Kaduna on Thursday, the vice president applauded  the state government for attracting over $500 million worth of investments to the state, thereby creating thousands of jobs. Represented by the Senior Special Adviser to the President on Industry, Trade and Investment, Dr Jumoke Oduwole, Osinbajo stated that Kaduna had leveraged on its agricultural potentials to draw agri-investments, thus making the state home to agro-allied businesses. Osinbajo noted that measures taken by the administration of Gov. Nasir  El-Rufa’i had made Kaduna to jump from 55% to 69.7% as the most improved state in Nigeria in the Ease of Doing Business according to World Bank 2018 report. ”It is no wonder that the tenacious commitment in creating investment friendly environment in Kaduna earned the state the 2019 Reformed Championship Award,” the VP said. He appreciated the Governor for his dedicated commitments towards the course of improving the economy and also positioning the State to greater improvements from both domestic and foreign investors. “Indeed Kaduna state has witnessed an unprecedented land of improvements in the ease of doing business. The State government’s  laws and regulations has advanced for efficiency, accessibility and possibilities, and even implementations. “Only last night, the governor’s achievements were appreciated. He received another award for his performances at a  ceremony held in Abuja”, the VP stressed. While presenting a recap of yesterday’s event, the Governor said, the Land reform in Kaduna State had made land acquisition, re-certification and registration cheap, easy and fast. “From 2015 to date, the governor has signed and issued 20,000 Certificates of Occupancy (CofO) a feat not achieved in 30 years combined,” he said He said the sate was rated no 1 in housing delivery in Nigeria. Nearly 20,000 units are under construction through the Private Partnership Programme  by various developers with an arrangement for all citizens to obtain Mortgage loans at 9% to buy homes and repay in 25yrs. NAN reports that  highlight of the  event included, the presentations on Vocational Skills and Plenary Sessions on Unlocking the Potentials of Agriculture in Kaduna State.(NAN)