By Muhammad Bashir Dutse – The Jigawa Office of the Public Complaints Commission (PCC) on Friday said it treated no fewer than 339 cases between January and March. The commission’s Spokesman in the state, Malam Nasiru Abdullahi, made this known in a statement in Dutse. Abdullahi said that “123 of the cases, including brought forward ones, were resolved, while 216 were still pending. “The complaints were mainly lodged against public and private institutions.” He said the commission was established with significant degree of independence, charged with representing the interest of the public by investigating and addressing complaints of maladministration or violation of right. “Public Complaints Commission is an organisation of nonprofit business that receives complaints and investigates it through neutrality, confidentiality and accountability of government and other private institutions towards those governed. “The commission was established with great power to enquire into complaints by members of the public authority and companies or their officials, and other matters ancillary thereto. “We used to receive or initiate complaints on administrative injustice, financial loss, right violation and personal hardship. “And our mission is to promote an effective and efficient service that is responsible and responsive to the needs of the citizenry through investigation and resolution of complaints against local, state and federal governments, public corporations and private sector organisations and their official,” he explained. Abdullahi further stated that the commission also worked with other organisations, individuals and groups in the state to ensure that justice was done to any person or organisation that suffered from administrative injustice. He added that the commission discharges its duty voluntarily at anytime towards a mutually beneficial resolution of disputes. “Such kinds of problems were resolved by the commission with impartial and neutral mind in respect of our investigation output. “We are always ready to accept or initiate complaints when something has been handled badly or unfairly, making government or someone to suffer as a result,” Abdullahi added. (NAN)