By Olajide Idowu Iragbiji (Osun) – Mrs Kafayat Oyetola, wife of Osun Governor, on Tuesday, organised freesurgical operation for people with hernia, hydrocele, lumps and other abnormal skin growth in the state. Oyetola, while speaking at Iragbiji Comprehensive Health Centre, Osun, venue of the surgical operation, said she was organising the free surgery to celebrate her birthday and also as a way of giving back to the society. She explained that the surgical operation would be provided through the Ileri-Oluwa Development Initiative (IOD-Initiative), and charged the people to take advantage of the free medical service. Oyetola, who doubles as the president of the IOD-Initiative, said the Initiative had undertaken quiet a number of medical interventions in the state for individuals with various health challenges, in line with the social protection mission of the Initiative. She said interventions had been carried out in areas of intrusive surgical needs and mental health, giving gratitude to God that all the interventions had been very successful, while all the beneficiaries were doing well. “We are all familiar with the saying that Ilera l’oro meaning health is wealth. “We are of the conviction in IOD-Initiative that in the provision of health, no one, I mean none of the people of our great state should be left unserved. “We are determined to follow this doggedly especially for the benefit of our women and children. “We consider health as a major social protection factor that would enhance better living standards for everyone in this state. “ It is when we are in good health that we can generate great economy for our state.” She said she had been engaging in humanitarian works ever since the emergence of her husband as governor and that her resolve to use medical outreach to celebrate her birthday was because of it significance to human existence. She thanked the president and members of the Hope Float Initiative and all other medical personnel, who volunteered to be part of the surgical programme.(NAN)