By Salisu Sani-Idris Nasarawa – The Federal Polytechnic Nasarawa (FPN) on Saturday in Nasarawa, matriculated over 3,681 students, comprising 2,361 National Diploma and 1,320 Higher National Diploma students for the 2018 and 2019 academic session. Delivering his speech at the venue of the 35th Matriculation ceremony, the Rector Malam Abdullahi Ahmed, enjoined the students to endeavour to live in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Polytechnic. He urged the students to tolerate each other and live peacefully among themselves, warning that no one would go scot-free, if found wanting at any point in time. “As you all know, you cannot strive for excellence if you are not disciplined. We live in a civilized society, and civility and decency must reflect in all our actions. “The Polytechnic is governed by rules and regulations and there are procedures for engaging in various activities. “I therefore urge all students to carefully read the regulations and follow the procedures accordingly. I assure you that if you do this, your days in the Polytechnic shall be happy andfruitful,” Ahmed said. The rector, who urged the students to shun anti-social activities such as occultism, examination malpractice and use of narcotic drugs, advised them to study diligently towards achieving excellence. He said that the institution had not lost focus towards achieving its mission of moulding students to become disciplined, skilled and innovative forself actualisation and national development. Ahmed disclosed that the management was working towards conducive environment for teaching, research and learning to ensure successful accreditation and reaccreditation of its programmes. “Recently, many structures and facilities in the school were rehabilitated, including classrooms and students’ hostels, while some of the ongoing projects (Lecture Halls, Office Complex, ICT Complex, Auditorium etc) were either completed or nearing completion tocater for our expansion. “More importantly, all our programmeswere accredited and or reaccredited and our carrying capacity increased. “We are making effort to introduce more programmes, especially in the fields of Science, Technical and Vocationalprogrammes. “At the moment, the facilities for Mechatronics Department have been supplied, installed and staff trained. This is giving a signal to the commencement of National Diploma inMechatronics Engineering very soon.” Ahmed said effort to commence Degree programmes in affiliation with some top ranking Nigerian Universities received a boost with the Approval-in-Principle granted by one of the Universities to commence the Degree programmes in 10 different courses. “We hope to finalise all the formalities with the view to commencing from the next Academic session.” He, therefore, solicited the support, loyalty, commitment and cooperation of all staff and students to make thePolytechnic a world-class institution of higher learning. (NAN)