By David Adeoye Ibadan – Cedars for Human Welfare, a Non Governmental Organisation, says staff of  INEC ought to emulate the conduct of  Mr Mutiu Agboke, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Oyo State, during the general elections. Mr Oluwabukola Olatunji, the Coordinator of  the NGO, stated this on
Wednesday when he led other members of the organisation on a courtesy
visit to the state headquarters of INEC in Ibadan. Olatunji said that the performance of the commission in the state under the leadership of Agboke was commendable. ”Agboke’s  exemplary role in the just concluded general elections makes  him stand tall as a distinguished personality. ”The proactive steps taken by the REC in all the activities of the
commission toward the general elections contributed to the success of
the polls in the state. ”At the crucial hours, the REC did not betray the people’s trust but maintained his stand despite intimidation and inducement. ”It is on this note that the organisation decided to visit the REC on
advocacy, commend his efforts and confer an award on him,’’ he said. Agboke, in his remarks,  commended the NGO for the award  conferred on him and dedicated it  to every staff of the commission. He attributed the success recorded to transparency and openness,
saying all stakeholders were carried  along throughout the electoral
process. The REC  reiterated the commitment of the commission to ensuring that
 the votes of the electorate continue to determine winners of
elections. Agboke also  implored Nigerians to always believe in the commission, saying the era of manipulating election results was  over. He enjoined Nigerians who were yet to collect their PCVs before the
last elections to do so once the commission begins  distribution of the
cards  in its custody. The News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) reports that highlight of the
occasion was the presentation of a Commendation Certificate and a plaque
to the REC. The Administrative Secretary of the commission in Oyo State, Mr David
Asemo,  and other top officials  witnessed the events.(NAN)