By Thompson Yamput Jos – The Plateau government on Tuesday tasked religions and community leaders to support measures aimed at controlling malaria and promoting family planning. Mr Gonen Lakda, Director, Public Health, Ministry of Health, gave the
charge during a 3-Day Workshop organised by USAID/Breakthrough
Action-Nigeria at Crispan Hotel, Rayfield, Jos. The theme of the workshop is “Orientation meeting for Social and behaviour change advocacy core group”. “Malaria is a deadly disease which, if not properly and effictively tackled, will keep ravaging precious lives in the country. “This government is glad that this workshop is organised for
religious and community leaders given their tremendous influence on the
people within their domains. “The fight should not be left to the government or health workers alone. It should be everybody’s concern,” Lakda asserted. He noted that in spite of the distribution of Mosquito treated nets
over the years, control of malaria still remains a huge challenge. While emphasising the need for synergy among government and
stakeholders, he called for prudent awareness on the importance of
family planning, pointing out that child birth spacing wass crucial to
healthy living. Also speaking, Dr Moses Sunday, Programme Coordinator, Breakthrough
Action-Nigeria, disclosed the the organisation was in 21 countries
including Nigeria, in the efforts to end malaria and promote family
planning. “Individual/family behaviour has been noted as key barrier to malaria and child birth control. “The main goal of our activities is for the people to maintain a
healthy living in Nigeria. That comes only through taking healthy
decisions specially, by religions and community leaders,” Sunday stated. Mrs. Rahila Telfim, Plateau Family Planning Coordinator, in her
remarks, lamented the rate of infant mortality and the dismal 14.
4 per cent public acceptance of modern method of family planning in Nigeria, Represented by Mrs. Grace Panse, she regretted that “since 2015, no
budget has been approved and released toward Family planning in
Nigeria.” She, however, said that 553 Primary Health Care (PHCs), were offering
Family planning services in Plateau, in addition to JUTH and Binham
University Teaching Hospital.