He supposedly had an affair with Rose Hanbury, who happens to be a friend of his wife In a rather surprising turn of events, rumour has it that one of the royals has been unfaithful, namely: Prince William. Recent reports state that the Duke of Cambridge has cheated on Kate Middleton. He supposedly had an affair with Rose Hanbury, who happens to be a friend of his wife. But this isn’t just your standard cheating drama… there’s a lot more to it. So let’s break down the gossip: Who is Rose Hanbury? Rose is a former model who is married to director-actor David Rocksavage. As per The Daily Beast, the pair live in Norfolk, just a few miles away from William and Kate’s home at Sandringham. How did the rumours start? A few weeks ago, The Sun published a story alleging that the Duchess of Cambridge and Rose had a falling out, after which Kate told Prince William to “phase” Rose out. Other British publications like The Daily Mail and Express followed suit with their own stories. However, no rhyme or reason behind it had been stated. After that, writer Nicole Cliffe posted a Twitter thread in which she presented the theory that Prince William cheated on Kate, and that was the source of the tension between him and Prince Harry — not, as was previously reported, Meghan Markle. In Touch then published a cover story about Prince William cheating on Kate. A source apparently told the magazine that Kate “immediately confronted” William about the alleged affair, and he “just laughed it off saying there was nothing to it.” How did the palace respond? It should come as no surprise that Kensington Palace declined to comment. However, “courtiers” told Daily Beast that the story “was totally wrong and false.” Daily Beast further reported that at least one British publication has been served with legal warnings for publishing the rumours. One of the letters reportedly states, “in addition to being false and highly damaging, the publication of false speculation in respect of our clients’ private life also constitutes a breach of his privacy pursuant to Article 8 of the European Convention to Human Rights.” Duncan Larcombe, former royal editor of The Sun, told The Daily Beast that the use of such a legal letter “is very much a move of last resort,” since the royal family tends not to take specific legal action on stories like these. Either way, there’s no public proof that the rumors are true, and nobody but William, Kate, and Rose really knows what went on. Tribune.com.pk.