New York – This Sunday’s episode of HBO’s juggernaut “Game of Thrones” is expected to bring death – a lot of it. The fantasy series, an adaptation of George R.R. Martin’s “A Song of
Ice and Fire” series of novels, is rapidly approaching its conclusion in
its eighth season. The series has only four episodes remaining before it ends its run as
one of the cable network’s most successful shows in its history. With that comes the wind-down of the show’s key conflict. The conflict is between those living in its medieval-fantasy society
and an army led by the Night King, a blue-eyed humanoid creature from
icy wastes in the far north, who has the ability to raise and control
the dead. Shocking, unexpected deaths were the calling card for Game of Thrones
for several seasons, beginning with the demise of its primary
character, Eddard Stark, lord of the castle of the fictional locale of
Winterfell. He was played by “Lord of the Rings” star Sean Bean, who featured heavily in the show’s marketing when it premiered in 2011. Several other characters met unexpected ends in the seasons that
followed, often in gruesome ways, such as season three’s “Red Wedding,”
which featured the massacre of Eddard Stark’s wife and son and numerous
allies at what was supposed to be a celebratory marriage. Major character Jon Snow was stabbed to death at the end of season
five, but was brought back to life in season six in one of the show’s
most talked-about moments. But the frequency of deaths that kept viewers off-balance has
diminished in more recent seasons, and most key characters have
survived. That is likely to change with this Sunday’s episode, the third of six
in this season. On gaming websites and Game of Thrones-themed message
boards, pools have cropped up speculating which characters will die this
week. “It’s going to be a bloodbath, but we’re going to love it. That’s one
of the reasons why we love Game of Thrones,” said Susan Miller,
editor-in-chief of Watchers on the Wall, one of the best-known blogs
about the show. Most of the previous episode focused on the remaining characters
gathered at the Starks’ home in Winterfell contemplating their existence
prior to an impending assault by the Night King’s army. Keeping track of the characters that could see their stories end is
difficult at times: the show has featured more than 100 major speaking
roles during its run, and even now more than 20 notable characters are
all in the same locale. This Sunday’s episode will run more than 80 minutes, making it one of the longest of the series. Among the characters most in danger: Theon Greyjoy: Played by Alfie Allen, he was raised by Eddard Stark
in Winterfell as a ward, but later betrayed his adoptive family and
seized the castle. Now he is set to defend it. Bets on Sportsbetting.ag, an online
sports betting site, put 4-to-1 odds on him dying first, highest of any
character mentioned (a $100 bet pays out $400). Jaime Lannister: This character, played by Danish actor Nikolaj
Coster Waldau, is a knight who fathered several illegitimate children
with his sister, Cersei, now the queen (played by Lena Headey). Odds on
him dying first are 5-to-1. Brienne of Tarth: Played by Gwendoline Christie – who also appeared
in the recent “Star Wars” films – she was the first woman knighted in
the show’s Seven Kingdoms. She fetches 12-to-1 odds on dying first,
according to Sportsbetting.ag.