By Amen Gajira Bida – The Rector of the Federal Polytechnic, Bida, Dr Abubakar Dzukogi, said the institution would revamp ailing local industries in its host communities through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Dzukogi stated this on Sunday at the commissioning/handing over of a
shea butter processing shed constructed by the institution at Ekosa
village. He said reviving the industries through use of modern technology was
necessary to improve their production processes and products. “Some months back, we were here for the foundation laying ceremony and today the project has been completed. “Corporate Social Responsibility to our immediate communities is very dear to my heart. “Indeed it is one of my seven point agenda and that is why despite
difficult financial situation of the polytechnic, we still try to do
something. “Our main focus is towards revamping the dying local industries by
introducing to them, modern technology that can improve their production
process and products,” he said. In his remarks, the chairman of the polytechnic’s CSR committee, Mr
Usman Okene, said the shed was to reduce the hardship people of the
community go through in making shea butter. “The committee went round, identified those traditional industries
and discussed with the operators to identifying their peculiar needs so
that we can be of help. “Here at Ekosa, we discovered that they stay under sun/rain in their
processing  of the shea butter and that is why we are commissioning a
shed for them today. “They also need other things such as specialised machineries to ease their work. Those ones may come later,” he added. Okene noted that some of the industries that “require our
interventions include Locust beans processing at Kangi Makun, Masaga
glasswork, rice milling along Fogun among others.” Also speaking, the representative of the community, Mohammed Ndatsu,
said they would take full advantage of the shed to bringing about
increased production. In the same vein, the chairperson of the shea butter processing
association, Zainab Mohammed, appreciated the institution for the
gesture, saying it was a great relief as they had suffered for long. Mohammed used the opportunity to solicit for soft loans from the institution to enable them expand their businesses. The electro-manual operated blowers, which had three step speeds,
were also presented to Dokodza and Tswatamukun communities by the
polytechnic.