It is said: “It is better to give than to receive.” But I think, some
giving(s) do not come from the quarters of charity, sacrifice, wisdom or
chivalry, but from a place of deep insecurity and delusion of grandeur. When
the purpose of giving is to “maintain an appearance”, then that is a
self-esteem problem. Over the years, Nigeria has had Africa as the
“centrepiece” of its foreign policy. The country has played supportive
and stabilising role in the affairs of most countries on the continent.
It took the throttle in the struggle against apartheid in South Africa;
it funded the ANC, and provided academic and corporeal sanctuary to the
blacks of the country. Today, Nigerians are, perhaps, the most hated
people in that country, routinely harassed, abused and intimidated. Also,
in the past, Nigeria provided substantial financial and material
support to Chad and Niger; in fact, it has maintained this tradition.
But as a matter of fact, these countries have not been very committed in
helping Nigeria extirpate Boko Haram. There have been reports of both
countries withdrawing their troops from the border areas, where the
insurgents are secreted, over issues of “command superiority”. It
is not out of place to play the “big-brother”, but it is unwise to keep
playing the role when effort is unrequited and when there is a
blistering image problem. Nigeria, today, contributes 15.7 percent to
the global poverty rate. It suffers from serious infrastructure
denudation and its debt profile is perilously high. And the truth is our
depressing situation is known to the world. So, who are we trying to
impress? Why must we keep up appearances? Our charity will be counted as
foolishness as long as the ranks of the poorest of the poor keep
swelling. Where is the logic in a man throwing steak in the
marketplace at a time his family is in dire need of protein and
suffering from kwashiorkor? President Buhari’s $500,000 gift to
Guinea Bissau for its elections may be well-intentioned, but good
intentions do not make great countries. There is no morality in
international relations. What does Nigeria hope to get out of this
gesture? Countries like, the US and UK, are notorious for putting
strings to every act of charity; this is because they understand the law
of sowing and reaping. There is no free money anywhere. However,
the $500,000, which is about N180,000,000, could have been much useful
in providing about 500 water pumps for the people of Ogugu in Olamboro,
Kogi state, who drink from a stream or in building about 50 classrooms
in Rimin Kebe,  Ungogo local government area, Kano state, where 499
pupils share a single classroom. Our priorities have always been
conflicted. I recall when our athletes had to resort to begging on
social media to represent the country at an international event; yet
they had a government. It is bravery to decline a request when
the weather is not favourable. And in exigent times, priority must be
given to that which is most important. Charity begins at home.  •Twitter:@FredrickNwabufo