By Husen S. Hi all, I too would like to share my personal experience for the benefit of those who are thinking about immigration; I moved to Canada last year, August 2018 to be precise. I am in my early 30s, born and bought up in Mumbai (one of the biggest city in the world), India. Back in India: I used to work at an MNC as an AVP; my daily life was like waking up at 6 a.m. getting ready and then the everyday struggle to get in the local train from the suburbs (coz even with a 7 figure salary I couldn’t afford a home in the city and though I had a car I never took it to work considering the stress of driving in the insane traffic and the conditions of the road). I used to reach work at 9 a.m., continue working for 10 to 12 hrs (it’s a norm here) and then again struggle to get in the train from the city back to the suburbs (the whole crowd moves in the same direction yet the authorities don’t care neither the crowd). Once back by 9–10 p.m, I used to spend some time with my friends depending on their availability and my timing, have dinner and then go to sleep. Here in Canada: I struggled a lot initially but after 4 months of patience, hard work, a lot of research & networking and a few certifications I got a job (I moved from finance into IT industry and from being an AVP to a Manager). Also, I moved to a smaller city in the scenic Okanagan Valley (kind of Goa in India) that has an amazing weather for most part of the year; rather than settling in big cities like Toronto or Vancouver (preferred destination by many immigrants). I earn a 5 figure salary but in CADs of course and I live in a house (bungalow as we call in Mumbai). I wake up at 6 a.m. as usual but here I have time to offer my prayers in peace, prepare as well as relish the tasty breakfast before leaving for work at 7:30 and the best part, I walk to work [I don’t have a car here coz I didn’t clear the driving test (twice), and eventually when I get it, I still won’t drive to work; 1. There is a 6 month or probably a years waiting for parking space in my office building 2. I live just 20 mins walking distance from work, that’s hardly 5–10 mins on bicycle and 15–20 mins by bus]. I work from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. (it’s a norm here) and I am back home by 5:30 p.m. then I enjoy the rest of my day reading in the local library or playing badminton/ working out in the nearby club/ fitness center or take a nice stroll along the lake front that’s hardly 5 mins from my home. It’s just been 6 months for me in Canada but I have enjoyed every bit of it, right from the struggle of getting a relevant job to appearing & reappearing for my driving tests, making new friends (from different nationalities) to shoveling snow from the walkway around my house. I do miss my family and friends a lot but then life is all about give and take, I prefer this life over the one back in India where I have my family and friends but hardly had anytime to spend with them or with myself. Source: Quora