By Ifeanyi Olannye Asaba – Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta has congratulated his Deputy, Kingsley Otuaro, while describing him as a ‘dependable partner’ as he marks his 51st  birthday. Okowa, who is currently on vacation, felicitated with the Ag. governor, Otuaro, in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Charles Aniagwu, on Monday in Asaba. The governor commended the qualities and competence of his Deputy, who turns 51 years on Tuesday, April 16. He lauded Otuaro for the role he played on the ‘SMART AGENDA’ in ensuring relevant peace for oil production in his capacity as the Chairman of Peace Advocacy Committee against Oil Facility Vandalism in the state. “On behalf of my family, the government and people of Delta State, I wish to felicitate with my amiable deputy governor, a party stalwart and leader of inestimable value on the occasion of his 51st birthday anniversary celebration. “You’ve been a worthy and dependable partner in our quest to ensure peace and security in our dear state. “And I must place it on record that you and your team in the Peace Advocacy Committee Against Oil Facility Vandalism in Delta State contributed largely to the peace we enjoy today in the oil and gas industry in the state. “Your life symbolises diligence, humility, perseverance, focus and dedicated service and this explains why your people of Warri South West LGA and Deltans overwhelmingly voted us back for a second term, to continue in our quest to build a stronger Delta. “Your Excellency, your indefatigable role as the deputy governor of our dear Delta State has contributed to the remarkable and modest achievements recorded by our administration. “And I thank God because with your continued partnership and that of the entirety of Deltans, better days are indeed here for our people. “I join your family, friends and well-wishers to thank Almighty God for His continued guidance, protection and provision for you in the past 51 years of a life of forthrightness, outstanding patriotism and service to humanity. “Happy birthday my Brother and Friend,’’ Okowa said. (NAN)