By Stanley Nwanosike Enugu – Pan-Africa Youths Entrepreneur Development (PAYED), an NGO, plans to train more than 300 youths on innovative business management and customer service to build a competent business capacity in the state. The Project Coordinator of the PAYED, Mrs Chinwe Ogborji, made this
known on Sunday during the official flag-off of the four-month training
in Enugu. Ogborji said that the training would allow youths, who were between
18 and 35 years to be acquainted with modern business strategies and
also to develop capacity to improve on their businesses. She said the organisation would connect the beneficiaries to
financial institutions to start up their business and help them secure
access to single-digit interest loans to enable them contribute to the
nation’s economy. “PAYED provides support through Citi Foundation and funded by
Technoserver for enterprising people to build competitive business and
employ more people in their businesses. “We are trying to get more youths to be financially literate, to rely
more on themselves and be able to contribute their own quota to
economic development of the country. “At the end of the training, we will connect the beneficiaries to
financial institutions to start up their business, get them access to
the market and also partner with other internship organisations to help
establish them,’’ Ogborji said. She noted that the organisation had trained and empowered about 280
youths in its first phase of the youth empowerment programme, saying
that “the programme is holding simultaneously in Abuja’’. The Citi Foundation takes a philanthropic approach to funding and
leverages on the enormous expertise of Citi and its people to fulfil
missions and drive leadership and innovation as well. The financial literacy and business training session is an example of
how Citi Foundation engages its employees as volunteers to deliver
training in basic accounting and other business innovations education. In 2018, Citi Foundation assisted in funding six programmes meant to
support Nigerian youths in developing leadership skills and
entrepreneurial mind-sets required to launch micro-retail start-ups.