London – Global oil supply dropped in March as U.S. sanctions and power outages pushed Venezuela’s crude output to a long-term low of 870,000 barrels per day (bpd). The International Energy Agency (IEA) said on Thursday that Thia was even lower than OPEC reported the day before. “The blackouts are an additional challenge for Venezuela’s oil
sector, already set back by economic collapse, corruption, mismanagement
and, more recently, by U.S. sanctions,” Paris-based IEA said in its
monthly report. The IEA, which coordinates the energy policies of industrialised
nations, said that the output decline of 270,000 bpd was Venezuela’s
second largest month-on-month drop. And this had put the country’s production at 600,000 bpd less than a year earlier. “Venezuela told the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries
(OPEC) that the nation pumped 960,000 bpd in March, a drop of almost
500,000 bpd from February,’’ OPEC said on Wednesday. OPEC, Russia and other non-member oil producers agreed to cut output
by 1.2 million bpd from Jan. 1 for six months and are set to meet on
June 25 and 26 to decide whether to extend the pact. The IEA said that the voluntary curbs of that deal and reduced output
by Venezuela had caused OPEC production to fall by 550,000 bpd in
March. The IEA also maintained its forecast of growth in global oil demand for 2019 at 1.4 million bpd. “Tightness in the oil market is not just a supply story. In recent
months, the resilience of demand has received less attention,” the
agency said. “Although it is still early days, the major centres of oil demand
growth are performing strongly. In China, the economy seems to be
reacting to the government’s stimulus measures,” it said, also noting
strong demand in India. Meanwhile, it said that oil stocks in industrialized countries fell
in February by 21.7 million barrels but remained above their five-year
average. Global refining throughput fell by 2.5 million bpd in March on unplanned outages, especially in the United States. “Although the main sources of growth are doing well, there are mixed signals from elsewhere,” the IEA stated.