By Ibukun Emiola Ibadan – Prof. Segun Ajiboye, the Registrar of Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN), says the body has commenced efforts to return teachers displaced by insurgency in the North East Zone to the classrooms. Ajiboye said in Ibadan that TRCN would re-motivate and change the
psyche of the traumatised teachers to encourage them to return to the
classrooms. He further stated that some of the teachers who were in the zone had
lost their certificates in the crisis, adding that the council had
restored them. According to TRCN, bringing back the teachers would improve knowledge impartation in students in North East Zone. “Actually, it is disheartening; we are affected and we can’t pretend. “We have lost so many teachers to insecurity especially in the
northeast, it created trauma, pupils left schools and they don’t want to
come back. “The teachers themselves left because of what had happened to their colleagues. “What we are doing is to bring back our teachers especially in the
northeast. A lot of interventions are going on to remotivate the
teachers and change their psyche. ” So many of them left the teaching profession; they don’t want to
come back but now sanity is returning and our teachers are coming back. “Some of them lost their certificates to insurgency,” he said. On the deadline to register as professional teachers, Ajiboye
disclosed that full enforcement against unregistered and unlicensed
teachers would begin in January 2020. The TRCN boss said that any teacher not registered by the council as
at Dec. 31, 2019 would not be allowed to practise in Nigeria. According to him, a letter of reminder is being sent to the
Commissioners of Education and the Education Secretary in the Federal
Capital Territory on the need to ensure that practising teachers in
their states get valid licence before the deadline. “That deadline stands. Infact, the Minister of Education has directed
that TRCN should do a letter to Commissioners of Education and
Education Secretary in the FCT to remind them about the deadline. “By December 2019, anyone not registered and licensed by TRCN may may not be allowed in our classrooms. “By January 2020, enforcement will begin,” Ajiboye said.