By Fatima Mohammed-Lawal Ilorin – The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), says it will engage the Kwara government on necessary intervention programmes for children in the state. Dr Zakari Adam, Chief of Field Office, UNICEF, Kaduna, said this  on
Monday during the discussions and review of various policies on children
welfare in Kwara. Adam explained that all the discussions and presentations from
various ministries in the state, had afforded UNICEF a better
understanding of the programme related to children’s rights. “With the knowledge on ground, UNICEF will fine-tune the programme
and all secretariat will collate the presentations and group them
together to come up with reports on how to continue,” he said. He said there would be need for engagement and agreement on
interventions programmes through meetings, which would ensure minimum
package of intervention. He added that there would also be a media review for all state under UNICEF, Kaduna. According to him, the media review will come up around July, which will help to identify areas that cannot be pushed aside. Mr Oladapo Samuel, State Director, Monitoring and Evaluation,
Ministry of Planning and Economic Development, expressed optimism on the
positive outcome from the meetings. “It is good that UNICEF is returning back to the state, the organisation is ‘frank and honest’. “They have made us to realise that they are not messiah, as they
equally have challenges, but that they are here to assist and support,”
he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that various presentations
from the Kwara Ministries complained of paucity of funds and inadequate
training of health care workers in the state. The Ministry of Health identified the challenges of poor attitude of
health workers and poorly funded social mobilisation activities. While the Ministry of Education also identified insufficient
personnel, inadequate budgetary allocation for education and
insufficient infrastructures among others as part of the challenges
faced by the ministry. The presentation from the Kwara State Primary Health Care Development
Agency on nutrition indicated that there was non-availability of
commodities essential to nutrition. “There is also lack of equipped nutrition kitchen and inadequate supportive supervision and monitoring among others’’.