DAKAR – Giving more food aid in Ebola-struck parts of the Democratic Republic of Congo could help stop the spread of the second-biggest outbreak in history, aid agencies said on Wednesday. Food
shortages are longstanding problem in the central African country, where
about 13 million people, or 15 percent of the population, did not have
enough to eat last year, according to the international food security
tracking system IPC. Public mistrust is a major obstacle to
stopping the epidemic, which has infected more than 1,300 people and
killed 880 in eastern Congo since July, with many refusing vaccines and
resisting treatment, while medical centres have been attacked. “People
receiving food are found to be more willing to cooperate in
registration, vaccination and treatment,” said Claude Jibidar, the World
Food Programme’s country director. Delivering food to
families that might have been exposed to Ebola also helps prevent the
disease’s spread by keeping people at home instead of in markets and
public places, he said. The world’s worst epidemic of Ebola, a hemorrhagic fever, killed more than 11,300 people in West Africa from 2013 to 2016. Congo’s
Ebola outbreak is spreading at its fastest rate yet, with a record
number of new cases in recent weeks as militia violence and community
suspicion have impeded access, with many deaths occuring outside of
treatment centres. Providing greater support for people affected
by violence in the area – where about one million are displaced due to
years of conflict – could make them more willing to seek Ebola services,
said Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC) charity. Advertisement “It
is very unlikely for somebody who is without shelter, without food,
without education for their children … to run and go get treatment
when their basic needs were never addressed,” said Kimberly Bennett, a
spokeswoman for NRC. Worsening violence and poor rains have
contributed to a rise in hunger in parts of North Kivu province – one of
the areas hard-hit by Ebola – said the NRC, particularly among
displaced families and those hosting them. People infected or
suspected of Ebola infection have also been forced to abandon their work
when they are quarantined to prevent transmission of the disease, it
said.