By Okeoghene Akubuike  Abuja – The Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) has reiterated the need for professionals to set an agenda for unity in the country. The Institute’s Vice President, Wale Adeniyi NIPR, reiterated this
during a courtesy visit to the Managing Director, News Agency of Nigeria
(NAN), Mr Bayo Onanuga in Abuja. Adeniyi who led the Local Organising Committee on the visit said they
were in NAN to inform and seek partnership with the agency on the
institutes’ up Coming 2019 Annual General Meeting/Conference. He said the AGM would hold on May 2 in Abuja with the theme
“Optimising Public Relations Strategies to Enhance National Cohesion.’’ “ This year we have taking stock of what is happening as a nation, we
took a look at a build up towards our national elections and all the
issues that played out during the elections, “We looked at the various political actors who played up our divide;
the North/South, Muslim/Christians, Hausa Yoruba Igbos, all these things
that have divided us building up to the national elections. “And, we are saying even after the national elections, there are
still some voices here and there that tend to emphasise how divided or
divisive we are. “ And, we decided that during this AGM, we want to adopt a theme that
will provide a rallying point for the unity and cohesion of Nigeria and
that will try to emphasis those things that bring us together rather
than those things that tend to divide us. “ So, we have adopted a theme: Optimising Public Relations Strategies to Enhance National Cohesion. “We believe it is about time that we bring the attention of
professionals like Public Relations practitioners to seek PR narratives,
PR activities, PR agenda that would rally Nigerians towards a national
course, towards national unity. “And to ensure we heal wounds that most have been thrown up by the
elections, to ensure that we lay proper foundation for national
reconciliation and national unity.’’ Adeniyi, who is also the Chairman of the AGM/Conference said the
institute had confidence in the agency’s ability to project the national
idle and celebrate what unites the country to lay a foundation for
economic development. He congratulated the managing director for taking NAN to a higher level and wished him the best of luck.
In his response NAN Managing Director, described the theme as apt and should be supported by all Nigerians. Onanuga noted that politicians used ethnicity and religion to cause
divides among citizens to dodge accountability and responsibly”. “ It is high time as you are doing, to begin to highlight the dangers of divisive politics that we do in our country. “The wish of every Nigerian is for this country to remain united and
we can really and harness the potential God has given us to become a
great country, that God has destined this country to be and I want to
wish your AGM a very huge success. He said the agency was willing to support the NIPR and its activities in fulfilling its mandate.