By Joseph Edeh Abuja, – The Nigeria Police  said on Wednesday that  two of its officers who allegedly killed Ogar Jombo, a personnel of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), had been arraigned in  court. The officers are Traffic Wardens Idoko Sunday and Katdel Dabit. Jombo, an Assistant Superintendent of the NSCDC, allegedly died after
being beaten by two policemen on March 20 in the presence of his wife
and children for alleged violation of traffic rules at Nyanya, Abuja. The acting Inspector-General of Police,  Mr Mohammed Adamu, had
ordered a comprehensive and speedy investigation into the death of 
Jombo. A statement by spokesman of the force, Mr Frank Mba, on Wednesday in
Abuja said investigations indicted the duo  for assault and excessive
use of force on the deceased after his arrest. He said their arraignment was sequel to the outcome of investigation
into the case of alleged discreditable conduct and unlawful exercise of
authority reported against them on March 20. “The former Traffic Wardens had earlier been subjected to the
internal disciplinary procedures of the force, tried in an Orderly Room
and dismissed before the arraignment,“he said. He said that autopsy report clearly traced the cause of death to
injuries inflicted on the deceased during his encounter with the traffic
wardens. “For avoidance of doubt, the autopsy report states in part that the
death was due to blunt force injury to the head, multiple skin and soft
tissue injuries on the fore head and face, and that there was no natural
disease in the body to sufficiently explain the sudden death.,” he
said. Mba said the police deeply regret the unfortunate incident and enjoined the public not to lose faith in the force. He said that the Inspector-General had reiterated that under his
watch, no form of impunity or “man’s inhumanity to man” would go
unpunished. Adamu, he said, had warned that any police officer found wanting for
unlawful use of force and other sundry offences would be publicly named,
shamed and brought to book to serve as deterrent to others. The spokesman said that the two erstwhile officers have been remanded in Kuje Prisons pending the next adjournment of the case.