…As Senate Commends Army for
Curtailing Boko Haram Insurgency in North East By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja
(Sundiata Post) – Confusion characterized the Monday’s public hearing on the
invasion of FCT indigenes’ land around Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport by
the Nigerian Army as the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) and
Nigerian Army presented conflicting positions as to the true ownership of the
Giri plot of land. The Nigerian
Army has presented evidence that the land along Airport Road at Giri in Abuja
FCT was allocated to them in 1979. Major
General E. O. Udoh stated this while presenting the position of the Ministry of
Defence and the Nigerian Army at “One day public hearing on the invasion
of FCT indigenes’ land around Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport by the
Nigerian Army” organised by the 
Senate Committee on Defence on Monday. The public
hearing was in response to a petition by Coalition of FCT Indigenous group to
the Senate. According
to General Udoh, Chief of Logistics, details of the allocation papers to
Nigerian Army are in file number 2375 at the FCDA office. He who expressed surprise that the FCDA is claiming that it could not find
the files, called for a proper investigation ascertain what led to the
missing file. General
Uche also informed that one time minister of FCT and former military officer,
Gen J.T Useni who is aware of the allocation to the Nigerian Army has been reached
and has expressed his readiness to testify on behalf of the Nigerian Army among
others he said he would not disclose their identities yet. He therefore described the petition by the coalition of FCT
indigenes Association as misleading, stressing that “Nigerian Army has enough
documents on the ownership of the Giri land along airport road”. According to
Udoh the land was surveyed in 1981. However, in
a surprise turn of events, the Minister of FCT, Mohammed Bello, represented by
the Permanent Secretary, Chinyeaka Oha said there is no record of allocation of
the land to Nigerian Army with Abuja Geographic Information System, AGIS. Mr. Oha said
there is a laid down procedure for land allocation and development in the FCT,
which according to him, the Army has not followed. The one day
public hearing was attended by many indigenous people of the FCT, traditional
rulers, representatives of Service Chiefs, IGP and DSS. The chairman
of the Senate Committee on Defence, Senator Abubakar Kyari pleaded with the
parties to remain calm pending the outcome of the committee report and the
report of the Presidential committee on the same matter. The
presidential committee on the land crisis has Chief of Staff to Mr. President,
Minister of Defence, IGP and other top government officials. Senator
Kyari commended the sacrifice of the Nigerian Armed forces in protecting the
territorial integrity of the nation, especially in the North East where he
comes from. He recalled
how in his senatorial district in 2015 election where 8 out of  the 10 local governments voted in internally
displaced persons, IDP camps compared to 2019 election where 8 out 10 now voted
in their respective local governments and only 2 voted in IDP camps due to
return of peace, courtesy of the Nigerian Armed forces. According
to him, “In 2015, out of
ten local governments areas in Borno, eight voted at the internally Displaced
persons (IDP) camps, but in 2019 general elections, only two local governments
areas voted at the IDP camps, the rest exercised their franchise at their local
government areas”. The senate ad-hoc committee however urged the military to halt
all developments on the land in question until the presidential and Senate
committee conclude its work. This is as it
implored all affected communities to show respect and restrain according to the
law, even as the police was mandated to investigate the killing of Hamza Usman. Sundiata Post recalls that the senate committee is entertaining
to the petition to ascertain the rightful owner of the land and to unravel the true
killer of Hamza Usman.