By
Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) –  The N35 million appropriation for the maintenance
of the country’s cultural centres located in Brazil and China  generated heated debate on Tuesday as Minister
of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed presented the ministry’s (Information
and culture) budget of N5.3billion to the senate. A breakdown of the budget shows
personnel cost of N3 billion, overhead cost, N880 million, capital (culture)
N589 million, Capital (information and culture) N438 million. However, the appropriation of N35
million by the ministry of information and culture for the maintenance of
Nigeria cultural centres in China and Brazil raised dust during the budget
defence. The dust was raised after the Minister, Alhaji Lai Mohammed’s presented the
2019 budget before the Senate committee on culture and Tourism. His
presentation revealed that the ministry has appropriated N35million on the 2019
budget when the  N25million appropriation
approved for the same purpose in 2018 has not been paid few months to the
beginning of implementation of new (2019) budget.
The committee, chaired by Senator Fatima Raji-Razaki faulted the appropriation
of N25 million for the maintenance of the cultural centres in Brazil and China
in 2018 budget which has not been implemented by the ministry close to the end
of the 2018 budget and wondered why the insertion of a fresh N35 million for
the same purpose in 2019 budget. Indeed, Senator Victor Umeh
inquired: “why do you want another N35 million for the maintenance of the
cultural centres in Brazil and China when you are yet to utilize the N25
million released for 2018 budget”? Lai Mohammed who explained that the hitch in releasing the fund
to Brazil and China was due to processing delay encountered at the Central Bank
of Nigeria (CBN), promised that the fund would be wired within minutes as soon
as CBN completes it formalities. He reminded that the fund was only
approved two weeks ago. On further probe of the Nigeria cultural centres in the two
countries, the minister said maintenance of the cultural centres include rents,
saying they are hired properties and that a delegation was sent there last
years to negotiate and beat the rent down from what was originally given. According to him,“The embassy put pressure on us due to none
payment, they are accumulated bills, some of the projects are for the image of
the country” Mohammed said. Justifying the N35 million for the year 2019 in the two
countries, he said “It promotes tourism and indirectly help the country. “When you have robust cultural policy,  it also aid the
country, look at the British Council, you can imagine it’s contribution to the
British economy”. Senator Fatima Raji-Razaki however asked the minister on the check and balance on the centres in Brazil and China, but the minister allayed her fears,  assuring that “our foreign mission represent us”. Also the minister reminded the senate committee that the challanges facing his ministry has to with late release of funds and the cumbersome nature of procurement as well as under-release of capital budget budget.