By Josephine Obute Lagos – Miss Valentine 2019, Erica Oraeki, has attributed the problem in marriages today to failure in core positive family values. The beauty queen told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in
Lagos that the problem of marriages or single parenthood would not be
tackled through a single approach. “Firstly, the core positive values for living even as a single individual has been relegated. “The truth is that anyone who has not done well in building himself
even as a single individual would either struggle in a relationship or
jump out of a relationship,” she said. According to the queen, also known as “Queen of love”, many ladies
look out for men who are financially buoyant or who are good looking. She said that these attributes were not basic for sustaining a relationship or even marriages. Oraeki noted that the guys on the other, hand look out for females
who were good looking, or were financially independent, which was also
not basic for sustaining a marriage. “Until people understand that in relationships, you relate with the
external personalities of the other party but in marriage you deal with
the internal personalities of the other party. “Then, will they tread cautiously, be more vigilant and then work on themselves more. “This is where the place of character building comes in.
Unfortunately, modernisation has exchanged character building for
charisma building. “Charisma could help in relationships but character sustains you in marriage,” she told NAN. Oraeki said that the pillars for solid character building such as
tolerance, patience, politeness, mutual respect and humility for both
male and female must not be overlooked. “Unfortunately, many of the male folks don’t take their time to build themselves in these areas before getting into marriages. “And so, they frustrate the other party, who either manages the
relationship or marriage, as an embittered person giving the single ones
more reason not to want to get married. “Then these undirected youths will form the habit of jumping out of
the marriage and thereby, increasing the community of people out of
marriage,” she said. Oraeki, who was crowned in February, urged young boys and girls not
to be discouraged about marriage or wanting to be single parents. She said that such traits were centered around poor character
formation and poor psychological maturity of the generation of young
people today, especially the male folk.