Kabul – Afghan President Ashraf Ghani on Friday encouraged newly-elected lawmakers to participate in the peace process with the Taliban as he opened the first session of parliament since a controversial election. Ghani has invited thousands of politicians, religious scholars and
rights activists to an assembly known as a loya jirga coming week to
discuss ways to end the 17-year war. Several opposition leaders have said they will boycott the four-day
assembly in Kabul, saying it was pulled together without their input and
is being used by Ghani as he seeks a second term in a September
presidential election. “We have presented the peace plan on a regular basis and we are
committed to it,” Ghani said in the first session since parliamentary
elections marred by technical problems, militant attacks and accusations
of voting fraud in 2018. According to Ghani, based on this plan, there will be no peace deal
and negotiation that does not have the green card of the parliament. Officials from the U.S. and the Taliban have held several rounds of talks to end the Afghan war. U.S. negotiator, Zalmay Khalilzad, has reported some progress toward
an accord on a U.S. troop withdrawal and on how the Taliban would
prevent extremists from using Afghanistan to launch attacks as al Qaeda
did on Sept. 11, 2001. The insurgents have so far rejected U.S. demands for a ceasefire and
talks on the country’s political future that would include Afghan
government officials. Afghan politicians and Western diplomats say the loya jirga, a
centuries-old institution used to build consensus among competing
tribes, factions and ethnic groups, is an attempt by Ghani to influence
the peace talks and cement his position for a second term. Amid growing political divisions in Kabul, opposition politicians
have demanded that Ghani step down when his mandate ends next month, and
give way to an interim government to oversee peace talks with the
Taliban. However, Ghani has ruled that out. The country’s top court said recently that Ghani can stay in office until the presidential election in September.