Press Release – At a press conference addressed jointly
by the delegation leaders to the just concluded IMF/World Bank Group
meetings in Washington DC on Sunday, Minister of Budget and National
Planning, Senator Udoma Udo Udoma, explained that the meetings presented
an opportunity to share with potential investors, and development
partners, President Muhammadu Buhari’s vision for an even faster growth
for Nigeria in his second term, having just won re-election. This
he plans to achieve by intensifying and consolidating on the
implementation of the policies and programmes of the Economic Recovery
and Growth Plan – the ERGP. The delegation comprised the Finance
Minister, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed; the Central Bank Governor, Mr. Godwin
Emefiele; and the Minister of Budget and National Planning, Senator
Udoma Udo Udoma. At the briefing Senator Udoma said that Nigeria
stands to benefit from the interface of the country’s delegation in
Washington DC as the responses from all the delegation’s engagements
with the global business community have been positive and encouraging. Among
others, the Minister participated in the presentation by the IMF of the
Regional Economic Outlook (REO) for Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), State of
the African Region, Annual Ministerial Roundtable on Social Safety Nets,
a business session with some members of the US Business Community,
meetings with credit and rating agencies, a meeting with officials of
the International Financial Corporation (IFC), and a coalition of civil
society groups, amongst others. He said the delegation has noted
the indication by the REO for Sub-Saharan Africa and the advice by the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), that while economic recovery in the
sub-region is expected to continue, from 3.0% GDP growth in 2018 to 3.5%
in 2019 and 3.7% in 2020, more should be done to shield the recovery
against risks arising from both domestic and external shocks. At
the State of the African Region, the Minister said discussions centred
on the role of regional cooperation in tackling fragility in Africa. “A
major takeaway was the need to pay attention to women empowerment and
education of the girl child, as these have positive implications in
dealing with fragility and reducing conflicts. As you know, investing in
our people and the issue of girl-child education are some of the
objectives of the ERGP.” Also at the Annual Ministerial
Roundtable on Social Safety Nets, Senator Udoma said discussions centred
on how to improve economic opportunities and human capital, as well as
social safety nets. “Here, as you know, Nigeria has a good story to tell
with our annual commitment of N500 billion for our social investment
programme, including our N-Power Programme, the School Feeding
Programme, the Cash Transfer Programme and the Government Enterprise
& Empowerment Programme (GEEP).” Summarising his presentation
to the business community at an investor lunch organised by the
Corporate Council on Africa (CCA), he said: “I let them know that
Nigeria is set for faster growth with the re-election of Mr President;
and that in his second term the President will continue with his
commitment to his three-pronged programme on the basis of which he
campaigned, namely: improving security, fighting corruption and reviving
and growing the economy. “With regard to the economy, I informed
them that the President intends to fast track the implementation of the
investor friendly policies of the ERGP, so as to generate even faster
growth. In particular, I informed them that the President has set up a
committee, headed by the Vice President, to produce an implementation
guideline for the incoming cabinet. All three of us here i.e. the
Minister of Finance, the Governor of the CBN, and myself, are members of
this Committee.” He also said that in all his presentations, he
had indicated that the fundamentals of the Nigerian economy are strong
and major indices are picking up including growth, foreign reserves, and
exchange rate; while inflation is declining. He pointed out that all
these are evidence of even greater prospects in 2019, and over the
medium term. “I also spoke about our reforms in improving the
business climate, the various incentives and opportunities for
investment in Nigeria which are set out in the compendium of investment
incentives published by the NIPC and FIRS, amongst others”, he added. Udoma
disclosed that in the course of his meeting with officials of the
International Finance Corporation (IFC), he asked for their support for
government’s efforts to leverage private sector capital to fund critical
infrastructure in Nigeria; as Nigeria requires private sector capital
to bridge the country’s infrastructure gap, a necessity for achieving
the objectives of the ERGP. The Finance Minister, Mrs Ahmed, who
was the leader of the Nigerian delegation, spoke of her various meetings
with relevant IMF and World Bank organs, Central Bank Governors, credit
and rating agencies, among others. She pointed out that in her
capacity as the representative of 23 African countries, she addressed
the IMFC and issued a statement calling for normalization of trade
relations among the contending parties as well as called for concerted
efforts to support multilaterism and avoid protectionist sentiments. Mrs
Ahmed said she was encouraged by the prospects of the resolutions at
the various meetings which signposts a better economic future for
Nigeria and Africa.The Central Bank Governor,
Mr Emefiele also gave a summary of his engagements with the business
community and the relevant organs of the World Bank Group as well as
fellow Central Bank governors where they discussed and took decisions on
global monetary issues and the potentials of the Nigerian economy. In
response to a question on the preparedness of the Nigeria to absorb the
fallouts of BREXIT, deal or no deal, Mr Emefiele said given the trade
position between the United Kingdom and Nigeria, he is not anticipating
any significant effect on the Nigerian economy, deal or no deal. Signed Akpandem James Special Adviser (Media) to the Hon, Minister