 ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – The Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) has waded into the controversy trailing the appointment of Miss Aisha Abba-Kyari as Assistant Vice President (AVP). The organisation on Sunday said she did not get her job as an AVP because she is the daughter of Alhaji Abba Kyari, the Chief of Staff (COS) to the President, due to the quality of her credentials. She also passed all the levels of interviews required for the office before she was employed, the organisation, said on Sunday, denying any form of scam in the entire process as alleged by some interest groups. The appointment, suddenly came into the public glare after Coalition Against Corruption and Bad Governance (CACOBAG), a civil rights organisation, alleged that it violated set procedure at the NSIA. Among other allegations, the group said that the position she was given was neither advertised nor did she meet the criteria for appointment. Titilope Olubiyi, Head, Corporate Communications at NSIA, in a statement, however dismissed the allegations, as based on false information and mischief, stating that there was absolutely nothing untoward in the entire process of hiring the lady. The statement, read: “The clear mischief in the reports can be seen in the very false and unsubstantiated statements it contains: The report claims that AVP is the ‘highest level in the organisation’. This is not only false, but mischievous given AVP is the 9th level out of NSIA’s 22-level grading system. “The report also claimed that she was given a car six months ahead, when the position does not entitle the staff to a car in the first place. In fact, she will require two promotion cycles to qualify for a car entitlement. The report also claims that the candidate’s package was N32m, which is false!” Also faulting some comments attributed to NSIA directors in some media reports saying they “are also entirely false,” she said there was no time when any of them made such statements neither was there any document to validate the purported accounts as published. “There is no correlation between the recruitment process of the candidate, and the approval process of an ED or Board member. These are mutually exclusive and independent events.” On the allegation that the Board members of NSIA refused to interview Miss Abba-Kyari, she also described it as false. “In actual fact, a Board member in the appropriate sub-committee of the Board participated in the process,” the statement said. The statement was, however, silent on Miss Abba-Kyari’s total entitlement as an AVP.