By Constance Imasuen  Abuja   –    Mr Adede Williams, the President, Association of Telecommunication Professionals of Nigeria (ATPN)
has urged states’ Ministry of Education to pay more attention to the study of Information and Communications Technology (ICT) in
primary schools. He made the call in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Tuesday. He said that the study of ICT in primary schools would accelerate the ICT drive of Federal Government, stimulate innovation and
stir-up digital awareness in the country. He added that “I want to urge ministries of education in states, school administrators and governors
to pay more attention to the study of ICT, especially in public primary schools, and to provide digital facilities and
trained teachers for smooth learning. “That will give the pupils technological knowledge about ICT education. “If done, it is expected to bridge the digital divide across the country no matter the locality.” According to him, ICT professionals will not stop asking for government intervention in the sector until a digital economy
is achieved. Adede also appealed to federal and state governments to appoint ICT experts to head proposed ICT agencies across
the federation, when created. The ATPN president said that “by doing so, it would ensure a square peg in square hole and a round peg well fitted into a round hole. “Adopting such professional model for Ministry of Communications Technology and states’ Ministry of Science and Technology
or ICT agencies as the case may be, would assist the industry to grow expansively. “Such model should also be implemented, monitored and manned by well groomed professionals and technocrats..” He, however, urged President Muhammadu Buhari, the National Assembly committees on ICT and Cybercrime to work
toward establishing the Office of Information and Communications Technology General of the Federation. “This would ensure national ICT competitiveness and future survival and re-engineering of national development,” he added.