By Mohammad Tijjani Kaduna – The Air Force Institute of Technology, (AFIT) on Saturday matriculated 451 pioneer undergraduates since the institution was upgraded to a university. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) report that the event was held at the Nigeria Air Force base Kaduna. In his remarks, the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshall Sadiq Abubakar, said it was  an epoch making event that would add value in the quest for science and technology education in the country. Represented by Air Officer Commanding, Air Training Command, Kaduna, AVM Muhammad Sulaiman, Abubakar said AFIT was now a premier hybrid institution in Nigeria running both polytechnic and university systems. He advised the students to focus on their studies and avoid acts that would lead to their being sent out of the institution. “Now that you have sworn the oath of allegiance, I urge you all to look carefully at the contents in your spare time and avoid any propensity to breach any part of the oath which may lead to your suspension or expulsion,” he said. Meanwhile, a new Provost has been appointed for the institution. The new provost, Prof. Mohammed Dauda, took over from Prof. Emmanuel Ezugwu whose two term tenure of 10 years had ended. The Chief of Air Staff thanked the outgoing provost for his meritorious services to AFIT, which had helped it to maintain high level academic excellence. Earlier, Commandant of the institute, AVM Cletus Udeagulu said the Act establishing AFIT was signed into law on  Dec. 5, 2017, making the institution the 42nd Federal University in Nigeria. Udeagulu said the institute as of now has about 17 academic programmes fully accredited by the National Universities Commission. “Our Postgraduate College also commenced admission of students in the 2018/2019 academic session. “The Institute will continue to focus on her pursuit of excellence in teaching, research and service to society as enshrined in our vision,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that some of the courses offered by the institute include, Aerospace Engineering, Electrical/Electronics, Cyber Security, Civil Engineering, ICT, Accounting, Business Management, Economics among others. (NAN)