By Chinyere Joel-Nwokeoma Lagos – First Bank of Nigeria has partnered the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) on retail banking certification programme aimed at strengthening market share. Dr Adesola Adeduntan, the bank’s
Chief Executive Officer, announced the partnership at the inaugural
Retail Banking Certification Programme graduation ceremony on Wednesday
in Lagos. The retail banking certification
graduation ceremony is a three-level intensive programme that provides
retail bankers with access to current best practices in retail financial
services with an emphasis on strategy and leadership. Adeduntan said that the bank, over
the next two years, would work hard to be top three in the retail, small
and medium enterprises and corporate banking. He said that the bank had invested a
lot in the certification programme to ensure that business development
managers and group heads were well equipped to deepen its retail banking
business. Adeduntan urged the graduates to ensure proper utilisation of the programme in their various units with the right attitude. “Certification is very important but
skills and capabilities are very much important, on top of that is our
attitude to service whether we are dealing with internal customers,
especially our external customers that matter most in this business. “Go back and ensure that this
exercise is not only about certification, but it’s about certification,
skills and capabilities acquisition. “Because we also work in the service
industry, skills and capabilities acquisition without the necessary
attitude is useless,” Adeduntan said. He said that the market must feel First Bank as market oriented institution, noting that the bank needed to do more. Mr Tunde Owolabi, the bank’s Group
Executive Lagos & West, Retail Banking Group, said that it partnered
CIBN to develop skills and deepen knowledge of staff in retail banking. “What we have done is to put a programme together that will further empower our people. “We want people who are grounded in
retail banking to serve our customers better, if we are able to carry
this knowledge into the market, it will improve what we have as market
share,” Owolabi stated. He said that the bank with the
certification programme would be able to capture the market as long as
it wants with enhanced revenue. He added that the bank was also
working on e-business certification programme which would be perfected
before the end of the year. “It is something we are looking at
because the e-business product and digital banking products are
essential part of retail banking. “And if we are able to also put that
together, it will improve the knowledge of our people in delivering in
the market,” Owolabi said. Also speaking, Mr Sunny Ogunfadebo,
member, Capacity Building and Certification Committee, CIBN, commended
First Bank for recognising importance of capacity building. Ogunfadebo said that the certification programme would enable the bank to go back to its first position in the banking industry. He said that the exercise would
enable the graduates to be professional bankers, noting that Nigeria
needed bankers with high repute. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)
reports that 51 delegates who successfully completed the programme were
presented with certificates. However, five top delegates were
awarded with plagues and would be enrolled in Strategic Management &
Best Practices course organised by Euromoney Leading Solutions, London. Mr Austin Aduku, the bank’s Group
Head, Retail Banking North Central, one of the top graduates, lauded the
management for the opportunity to part of the inaugural certification. Aduku told NAN that he would use the experience gathered at the programme to boost financial inclusion in North Central zone. “I will make sure that financial
inclusion services are driven across all the nooks and crannies of the
North Central zone,” he said.