By Awayi Kuje Akwanga    –      Rep. David Ombugadu (PDP-Akwanga/Nassarawa Eggon/Wamba) says more than 15,000 indigent patients from the constituency have benefited from his free medical services.
Ombugadu, a two-term member of the House of Representatives, made this known on Sunday in an interview with newsmen in Akwanga.
He is also the governorship flag bearer of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Nasarawa State.
The lawmaker, who is also the Chairman, House Committee on HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria Control, said: “I am into the governorship race to bring the much needed positive change to the state.’’
Ombagadu said he is seeking the mandate of his people to lift the state to an enviable height, with full assurance to serve their best interest.
According to him, over 15,000 people have benefited from his free medical services while 3,000 patients underwent different kinds of surgeries from 2015 to date.
“Intervention items such as medical glasses and emergency ambulances were also distributed to healthcare centres.
“The free medical outreach has gone a long way in providing succour to our people who could not afford quality healthcare services.
“If elected governor, we will run an all-inclusive government that will foster the core democratic principles of governance that will be inclusive, accountable, responsible and committed to improving the quality of lives of our people.
“In the last seven years as a lawmaker, apart from sponsoring of bills, I have been able to provide my constituents with 230 hand-driven boreholes,’’ Ombugadu said.
The legislator listed his achievement to include provision of 11 motorised boreholes to alleviate problem of water supply, thus providing the people with portable drinking water.
“I also distributed 300 wheel chairs to the needy and 350 tricycles to the youths in order to empower them to become self reliant,’’ he added.
Ombugadu also claimed that he initiated 1,500 boreholes across the state, adding “every polling unit has got one borehole which is ongoing in order to tackle the problem of water scarcity in the state’’.
The gubernatorial candidate said that he had successfully procured and installed 15 MVA power transmission station in Nassarawa Eggon, which is the biggest sub-station power transmission in the state, to tackle the problem of power supply.
“I also installed 7.5.MVA transmission in Wamba Local Government Area of the state, which is the second biggest power transmission in the state.
“All of these gestures were to improve the lives of my constituents and the state at large as you can even go and investigate these projects,” he said.
According to him, he empowered many women and youths as well as embarked on rural electrification in order to better the standard of living of his constituents.
Ombugadu, therefore, urged people of the state to vote for him and all other PDP candidates during the 2019 general elections.
The PDP governorship candidate also promised to ensure total security of lives and property in the state, if given the mandate. (