ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – The Minister of Budget and National Planning,
Senator Udoma Udo Udoma, says Federal Government poverty alleviation
initiatives are making an impact in reducing poverty. He stated
that the implementation of these programmes has made many Nigerians,
particularly the poor and vulnerable, to feel directly the impact of
governance. He recalled that last Sunday, the 20th of January, he was at
an event organised by the Ministry of Information at which some of the
beneficiaries of the Federal Government’s Social Investment Programme
gave very moving testimonies of how their lives have been impacted by
the programmes. “Listening to these testimonies brought home to
me the importance of the work we are doing and how real lives are
transformed by these interventions. This work is important, and we must
all work hard to do more. Step by step we are helping to reduce poverty
and ameliorate the plight of the poorest of our citizens”, he indicated. Senator
Udoma said whilst there is no doubt that these programmes have been
impactful we must continue to intensify the implementation of these
laudable programmes so that the benefits may touch more and more
Nigerians. He assured that government will continue to focus attention
and activity on the poverty alleviation programmes and will implement
them consistently over a number of years to ensure that we achieve the
desired dramatic reduction in poverty. The Minister who was
speaking at an International Social Protection Cross-learning Summit in
Abuja on Tuesday, said the determination of the Buhari Administration to
continue its work to substantially reduce poverty among Nigerians are
the major reasons for the Summit; to see how the lessons from
implementing government’s social protection programmes can be applied to
further improve the lives of the poor and vulnerable. The Summit was organised by International Development Partners working with the Ministry of Budget and National Planning. He
explained that the objective of the summit is to deepen stakeholders’
awareness and understanding of the benefits of continuing the
investments we are making in social protection related programmes in
Nigeria. “It will also provide the opportunity for participants to be
briefed about the the various social protection programmes put in place
by this Administration since we assumed office three and half years
ago,” he added. Participants would be expected to proffer suggestions on
how to improve the impact of these very popular programmes. This
explains the selection of the theme for the Summit “Improving the Lives
of Poor and Vulnerable Nigerians: Lessons from Implementing Social
Protection in Nigeria”. The Minister pointed out that the issue
of social protection is a core component of the Economic Recovery and
Growth Plan (ERGP) which was introduced in 2017. “The Plan has three
broad objectives, namely: Restoring Growth, Investing in our People, and
Building a Globally Competitive Economy. We are committed to the
implementation of the ERGP. Social protection is part of our programme
of ‘investing in our people’, one of the three broad objectives of the
Plan.” He stated that “as a demonstration of that commitment we
have, since 2016, consistently set aside a provision of N500 billion in
our annual budgets to address issues of social protection. This is
unprecedented in the history of our country. In addition, the total
capital budget for social development programmes across MDAs (Health,
Education, Labour and Employment, Youth and Sports) experienced a
quantum leap from N48.17 billion in 2015 to N214.48 billion in 2018.” Following
on the recommendations of the 2016 Summit which was focused on
“Evidence and Learning in Improving Social Protection in Nigeria”, the
Minister announced that Nigeria has developed her own National Social
Protection Policy (NSPP) which will be formally launched during the
current summit.  The NSPP has 16 measures aimed at
addressing the challenges of human development. It provides a mix of
policies and programmes designed for individuals and households to
reduce poverty and socio-economic shocks, promote and enhance livelihood
and life of dignity among our people. This policy is meant to cater for
the vulnerable citizens of this country from cradle to grave. 