By Akeem Abas Ibadan – As part of efforts to mitigate the effects of   cybercrime on telecom consumers, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) on Thursday took its enlightenment campaign to Ibadan. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the campaign held under the auspices of the 102nd  edition of the commission’s  Consumer Outreach Programme held at the ancient Mapo Hall in Ibadan. The event with the theme, “ Mitigating Effects of Cybercrimes: The
Roles of Telecom Consumers,’’  was attended by representatives of
telecoms service providers, traditional rulers, security agencies  as
well as telecoms consumers. Alhaji Ismail Adedigba, NCC Deputy Director of  Consumer Affairs
Bureau, said the commission had put together the programme having
considered telecom consumers as important stakeholders in the industry. “In line with our mandate to continuously educate and enlighten the
consumers on industry issues, the theme of this programme was carefully
chosen in order to sensitise telecom consumers. “It is also to educate consumers on the rising wave of cybercrime,
the dangers it poses and the role which telecom  consumers are expected
to play in reducing the impact  of cybercrime on them,” he said. Mrs Felicia Onwuegbuchulam, NCC’s Director of  Consumer Affairs
Bureau, said  the commission  was committed to using its various
outreach programmes to educate consumers on the risks associated with
being online. Onwuegbuchulam, who was represented by Alhaji Bashir Idris, NCC Head
of Legal Services, said the programme would also enlighten consumers on
safety measures to take when connected to internet-enabled devices. “It is our belief at NCC that one of the most effective ways to
protect telecom consumers from effects of cyber crimes is through
continuous education and awareness,” she said. Mr Banji Ojo, NCC Deputy Director, Consumer Affairs Bureau
(Protection Advocacy), said the commission had evolved several
initiatives aimed at enlightening consumers and protecting their rights. He listed some of the programmes as COP, Consumer Town Hall Meeting
and Consumer Complaints Management,  urging consumers to make good use
of them. Ojo also said that the NCC had between January 2017 and December 2018
successfully resolved 92,757 complaints (78%) out of the 118,784 
received while more than 12 million consumers had activated the DND
code. He urged consumers not to buy pre-registered SIM cards and to report all cases of cybercrime to NCC. Mr Jide Abdul-Azeez, the lead presenter at the event, said access to
telecommunications had helped consumers  to constantly keep in touch
with their families and relations. He listed types of cybercrime to include phishing scams, identity
theft, child soliciting and abuse, online scams, malware, software
piracy and hacking. Abdul-Azeez identified the effects of cybercrime to include loss of
money, emotional trauma, loss of identity and personal details and
damage to devices’ internal operation. He called on consumers to always ignore phishing scams, use trusted
anti-viruses, use strong passwords, keep their software updated and
manage their social media settings. AbdulAzeez also urged NCC to ensure constant consumer education and
awareness, while service providers needed to alert consumers of palpable
internet threats or crime. Mr Toye Arulogun, Oyo State Commissioner for Information, Culture and
Tourism, commended NCC for organising the programme, saying it had
enlightened the people. “Cybercrime is a national disgrace, local calamity and triggers
individual trauma. I commend NCC for enlightening consumers on the
dangers inherent in cybercrime,” he said. Oba Lekan Balogun, the Otun-Olubadan of Ibadan, also commended NCC,
noting  that he had learnt a lot from the consumer outreach programme. “I have been a victim of masking or refilling. I did not know that I
am a victim until today. Since, I know now, I will always report such
number to NCC,” he said. NAN reports that the event also featured a raffle draw, with some  consumers going home with mobile phones.(NAN)