By Kaeem Akande Lagos – The Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) has said that there was possibilities for residents of Abeokuta in Ogun to now work in Lagos with the new standard gauge rail line. The Lagos Railway District Manager (RDM), Mr Jerry Oche, made the
assertion in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday
in Lagos. Oche said that the nearly completed Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge would
open lots of opportunities for various communities within the railway
corridors. “This is a huge opportunity for people living along the corridors,
many people will prefer to live in Abeokuta and work in Lagos State due
to speed and timeliness of the new train. “The development will even open a lot of business opportunities for communities along the railway corridors,’’ he said. According to him, the standard gauge when completed will travel at
150km per hour and Lagos-Ibadan is 156km journey through the standard
gauge. “So, you can reside in Ibadan and be working in Lagos which is a very
good development for people and for our economy,” he added. “The train travelling with such speed will curtail the menace of
gridlocks in the cities and relieve the highways from unnecessary
pressure as the travellers will prefer going with train rather than
through the road.” The district manager said that the infrastructure would also bring
vast job opportunities and social advantages to the youth, the populace
and to the states. “The perishable goods at the various communities will now be easily
transported to the city where the demands are higher, thereby reduce the
cost of goods and services,’’ Oche said. NAN reports that Mr Fidet Okhiria, the NRC Managing Director, had
said that it would test run the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge line early
in February. Okhiria, who disclosed this on Jan. 23, at Ijoko in Ogun, while
inspecting the project, added that work on the tracks was moving toward
Lagos with 1.5 kilometers being laid daily. “They have done a lot in laying of tracks between Abeokuta, Itori, Papalanto, Kajola, Ijoko towards the Lagos corridor. “Within seven days the track laying will reach Iju towards Agege corridor of Lagos State. “From here to Iju is 10 kilometers, and we are laying 1.5km on daily
basis and by the first week of February, we will do a test run to
Abeokuta from Lagos.