By Yunus Yusuf Abuja – Alhaji Aliko Dangote, the President of Dangote Group, has received the Honorary Patron’s Award from Brevity Anderson for his contributions to the Global Hydrocarbon Industry and his investments in the Nigeria’s downstream sector. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Dangote received a resounding ovation at the oil and gas industry award presentation at the dinner of the 2nd Edition of the Nigerian International Petroleum Summit (NIPS) in Abuja on Tuesday. Dangote, represented by Mr Ahmed Mansur, the Group Executive Director, Government and Strategic Relations, was on hand to receive the award from the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu. Kachikwu said that the event was aimed at rewarding and recognising institutions, organisation and personalities that had contributed immensely to the growth and development of the industry and the entire economy. He commended Dangote for investing in the building of the largest single train refinery in the country and assured him of government’s support in promoting the success of the project. ““This refinery is indeed a massive and gigantic project which needs to be supported by government and investors”, he said. Receiving the award, Mansur thanked the organisers of the awards for recognising Aliko Dangote and for taking note of his exemplary investments in many sectors of the Nigerian economy. Mansur assured stakeholders that Dangote Industries will not relent in offering exceptional services in the industry, stressing that the organisation would continue to exhibit and maintain global best practices at all times. He said the 650,000 barrel per day capacity petrochemical refinery project being executed by Dangote would be capable of transforming and diversifying the Nigerian economy from a major importer of petroleum products to an exporter of petroleum products. He described the refinery as one of the most strategic socio-economic projects in Nigeria featuring the largest single train petroleum refinery in the globe with 650,000 bpd capacity. According to him, Dangote Refinery is investing in most advanced units to produce Euro V fuel to help Nigeria meet the European Standard of gasoline. He said that the construction of the refinery would provide thousands of direct and indirect jobs and add value to economic development in Nigeria. NAN reports that the conference, which was organised by the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, was attended by representatives of NNPC, industry regulators and players as well as participants from other African countries. (NAN)