When I was living in Texas, a certain Florida-born American who lived in Bedford, Texas at the time asked me, “How did you learn to speak English?” My simple answer was: “English is the official language in Nigeria.” I also explained to her that I not only spoke English but also spoke Igbo and the Nigerian Pidgin English. Truth be told, an average Nigerian with basic education can speak at least three languages – English, the Nigerian Pidgin English, and a mother tongue. My wife speaks four languages, and is on her way to learning her fifth – Igbo! (I often tell my friends that how I know my wife is angry is when she begins speaking in a language that I don’t understand. She speaks two languages I don’t have a clue what she is talking about – Benin and Yoruba in addition to the Pidgin English, and a strong command of English) The reaction of a Nigerian to the question, “How did you learn to speak English so well?” will depend on the inquiree’s perception of social issues, who asks the question, tone of voice, facial expression, and so on. My first feeling when I heard that question was one of elation. The second feeling was of pity for the inquirer. That was MY feeling. Whether or not that was the right feeling is a question for another day.I felt elated because this lady was pleasantly surprised that I spoke English very well, and contributed robust ideas in the meetings we both attended often. I was neither embarrassed nor angry. Before we met, she might not have seen a Nigerian her entire life, and might have held the stereotypical view of Africa, that is prevalent in the United States, of a savage, brutish, and scary place. I also felt pity for her because of her miseducation and/or ignorance. I have met some Americans who think that Africa is a country! After seeing the movie Black Panther, some Americans honestly believed there was a country called Wakanda. A New Yorker might not ask the question of how a Nigerian learned to speak English very well; New York is a melting pot of languages and peoples. Nevertheless, I would not be surprised if someone who was born and raised in New York has limited knowledge of Nigeria, or Africa. The Nigerian novelist and Orange Prize award-winner Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie was irritated when a French interviewer asked the question: “Are there bookshops in Nigeria?” You can view her reaction and response here: Interviewer asks Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie: ‘Are there bookshops in Nigeria?’ I would not be irritated at the question; I would be flabbergasted at the inquirer’s ignorance. I would feel pity. Ignorance is universal. Being a teacher, I would “inflict” my student with knowledge rather than be angry. Source: Quora