By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Federal High court sitting in Abuja on Friday upheld the decision of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) not to accept the list of candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Zamfara state. Recall that the Crisis between supporters of governor of Zamfara state, Abdulaziz Yari and that of senator Kabir Marafa had stalled the smooth conduct of the party’s primaries in the state. The court held that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) acted within its powers by refusing Zamfara State chapter candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC). With the ruling, the APC won’t be able to participate in the next general elections. Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu, in a judgment said it wasn’t INEC fault that the APC failed to conduct a valid primary within the period scheduled by the electoral body. Justice Onjukwu said INEC’s action was intended to curb impunity among political parties and politicians and to ensure that rule of law is adhered to. The judgment was on a suit filed in the name of APC by some individuals, who said they emerged from a consensus arrangement adopted by the party in Zamfara State. Sundiata Post recalls that Senator Marafa had said the party would not be able to present candidates for 2019 if the leadership of the APC did not call Governor Yari to order. INEC had refused to accept the appeal of the leadership of the party which argued that it had the right to present candidates. Adams Oshiomhole, national chairman of the APC, had challenged the action of the commission, saying it is incorrect to state that primaries did not hold in Zamfara. While he admitted that there was violence when the national working committee (NWC) of the party went to Zamfara for the exercise, Oshiomhole said the primaries took place but there was no voting. He had accused INEC of not being fair to the APC, saying the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Kano state did not conduct primary yet the commission did not take any action against the party. After the bid to make INEC changed its stance did not achieve the desired result, some supporters of the APC had headed to the court.