By Ibrahim Bello Birnin Kebbi – The Federal High Court Birnin Kebbi, has adjourned Sen. Bala Na’Allah’s case challenging the validity of All Progressives Congress (APC’s) primary election conducted in October 2018 to Feb.20. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the validity of
Na’Allah ‘s primary election that brought his candidacy to contest for
Kebbi South Senatorial District for second term was challenged before
the court by Alhaji Sule Sami  through his counsel, Aliyu Usman. The presiding judge, Justice Basse Onu, adjourned the matter in line
with the prayers submitted by the counsel to the plaintiff and
defendant. In an interview after the sitting, the plaintiff counsel, Usman, said
the case was on pre-election matter challenging the validity and
constitutionality of the primary election that brought Na’Allah as the
APC senatorial candidate. “The matter was filed earlier at the Federal High Court 4, Abuja Division.” The judge then transfered the case to Birnin Kebbi Federal High
Court, after considering a new law directing that all pre-election
matters must be concluded from the date of filing the case within 180
days. “Now there are so many applications challenging the jurisdictions and
competency of the case as well as amendment processes and substitution
of the counsel,” the counsel said Also the defence counsel, Mr Afraimu Jingi, said the pre-election matter had time limit by the alteration of the constitution. He said the case was filed by the plaintiff on Nov. 1, 2018. He said the case had only 180 days within which it would be heard and determined by the court. “As at this time, we have not started the hearing of the matter. ” They prayed that the primary election be set aside and the claimant
should be declared  as the winner of the primary,” Jingi said. He added that a preliminary objection had been filed, stating that the case was not brought within time. “But we are watching to see what will be the fate of the case by the court,” the said. (NAN). IBI/IA Posted in Judiciary
| News Agency of Nigeria
Powered by Metric Internet NAN B