By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – People’s Democratic Party
Presidential Campaign Organization (PPCO) says the unprecedented crowd that
received its Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, at the State’s
Presidential rally in Uyo, Akwa-Ibom state on Monday, is a direct statement to
President Muhammadu Buhari that he has come to the end of the road. The PPCO recalls that the energetic crowd at the rally made
mockery of the scanty attendance at President Buhari’s much hyped Presidential
Flag-off rally at the same venue on December 28 last year, and further
confirmed to Mr. President that he no longer commands the followership of
Nigerians. This was contained in a statement signed by the National
Publicity Secretary,and Director, Media & Publicity, PDP Presidential
Campaign Organization, Kola Ologbondiyan on Monday sent to Sundiata Post. Accoprding to the statement, “The fact that Atiku Abubakar’s
state rallies had always had much more crowd than President Buhari’s campaign
flag-off in Uyo, which has the attendance of his supporters from all the states
of the federation, further confirms that Nigerians have decided on Atiku
Abubakar as the next President of our country. The deafening cheers, enthusiasm and passion with which the
people received Atiku Abubakar in Uyo as against the cold response and sneers
that greeted Mr. President at his campaign flag-off, also serves as an eye
opener to him that he is only being deceived into thinking that he has any form
of support in the Niger Delta region. The PPCO further recalls the pitiable sight where President
Buhari could only slur and failed to articulate any clear message as his rented
crowd, which refused to carry APC brooms, abandoned him and started leaving the
venue while he was still making his speech. From the rousing reception being accorded to Atiku Abubakar
in all our rallies in the various geo-political zones and states he has so far
visited, it is clear that Nigerians, irrespective of states, ethnicity,
sectional and political affiliations have attained a consensus on Atiku Abubakar
as our next President. The PPCO therefore counsels President Buhari and the All
Progressives Congress (APC) to note the tide and end their desperate
shenanigans including the assault on the opposition and our democratic
institutions, as such will never change the determination by Nigerians to vote
them out of office come, February 16, 2019.