By Kabir Muhammad Abuja – The FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello has commended members of Original Inhabitants Youth Empowerment Organisation (OIYEO) for their decision to ensure the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari in the forthcoming elections. Bello made the commendation when he received the youth organisation on a solidarity visit on Tuesday in Abuja. He recalled the state of affairs in the country when the present administration came to office. He stressed that the work of rebuilding and restoring the fortunes of
the nation could not have been possible just within three and half
years. The minister, therefore, expressed the need to give Buhari another
four years to consolidate on the remarkable achievements he had recorded
so far, and to take Nigeria to the next level. He said it was very important to elect those who would work with the
President in order to ensure that the dividends of democracy went down
through the various tiers of government. He said that efforts were being made to complete settling arrears of
severance benefits owed former councilors and political assistants by
successive administrations in the territory. The minister stated that he was, by so doing, implementing the
directive of the President who always identified with the plight of the
common man, and was an advocate for justice and the rule of law. “You would recall that the party we took over from was not APC, and
definitely those who benefited from the payments were not APC members. “But we had to pay because it was at the root of humanity that anyone
who works is entitled to the fruits of his labour,’’ he said.” Bello expressed surprise that some of the former political office
holders were still being owed and pledged to do something about it. The President-General of the OIYEO, Mr Isaac David, said the visit
was to show appreciation to the minister for the significant progress
made in the territory during his first term. He said Bello has succeeded in breaking what he described as the
tradition of leaving former political office holders in lack as a result
of non-payment of their severance packages. “But since this administration came to power, you have worked to
reverse the trend by ensuring that all former councilors and political
office holders are paid their severance packages,’’ he said. The Consultant of Forum of Ex-Councillors and Political Assistants
(FECPA), Mr Chijioke Nwandikom, said the group was prepared to work with
the youths to ensure a massive victory for the President at the polls. He said the FECPA was a formidable organisation which was ready to
partner with FCT Administration toward ensuring peace and development in
the territory.(NAN)