By Tukur Muntari  Kano   –     Prof. Adamu Abubakar-Gwarzo, the President, Maryam Abacha American University, Niger Republic, has advised graduands of the university to be good ambassadors of the institution wherever they find themselves. He gave the advise at the Class 2018 graduation dinner and award night held in Kano on Thursday night. He also advised the graduands to promote and protect the good name and reputation, which the university had achieved during the period of its establishment. NAN reports that the dinner and award night was organised by the management of the institution in honour of the graduands, who attended the ceremony from different parts of the country and Niger Republic. “I don’t think you will face any challenge in Nigeria and anywhere you may find yourselves because you are the best in Africa. “I am particularly proud of students of laboratory science because the department recorded 99 per cent success in their examinations,” he said. Abubakar-Gwarzo, who is the founder of the first English university in Niger Republic, urged Nursing students to study hard as council examination would soon be conducted in Abuja. He expressed optimism that the students would come out with flying colour after the examination as they had undergone rigorous training during their stay in the university. According to him, the students of the university have acquired what he described as “internationalisation skills” as they had interacted with people from different socio-cultural backgrounds. He, however, called on the students to be innovative, self-reliant and employers of labour. He thanked lecturers, management staff and students of the institution for their contributions to the development of the university. NAN reports that Abdullahi-Gwarzo had during the occasion launched a book written by a lecturer of the University, Dr Abdullahi Abdulsalam. The book, “Studies on Biogas Purification”, was launched at the sum of N20 million. NAN also reports that prominent artists, including popular Singer Devido and the state cultural troope, performed at the event.