Suspension of Onnoghen: NBA Kicks,
Says Its Coup Against Nigerian Judiciary and Constitution By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) has kicked
against the suspension of Chief Justice of Nigeria, Chief Walter Onnoghen
saying it is a coup against Nigerian Judiciary and constitution. The NBA therefore called for immediate reversal of the
purported suspension of Honorable Justice Walter Onnoghen to avert the looming
constitutional crisis precipitated by its ill-advised action. The news media has
been awash this evening with the news of the purported suspension of the Chief
Justice of Nigeria, Honorable Mr. Justice Walter S C Onnoghen, GCON by
President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR and the swearing in of Hon Justice Ibrahim
Tanko Mohammed as the acting Chief Justice of Nigeria. We are told that this
was pursuant to an Ex-Parte Order that was issued by the Code of Conduct
Tribunal on Wednesday, 23 January 2019. The Nigerian Bar Association disclosed this on Friday in a
statement signed its president, Paul Usoro made available to newsmen. The statement reads in full: The Nigerian Bar Association unequivocally rejects and
condemns this attempted coup against the Nigerian Judiciary and evident
suspension of the Nigerian Constitution by the Executive arm of the Federal
Government. The action of the Executive portends a slide into anarchy and
complete deconstruction of the Rule of Law and due process. It amounts to an
absolute breach of the Constitution and the usurpation of the powers of the
Senate and the Nigerian Judicial Council. It is unfortunate that the Executive Branch of Government
purports to suspend the CJN on the basis of an alleged ex-parte order of the
Code of Conduct Tribunal – the same Tribunal that, to the knowledge of the
Executive, had, only the previous day, Tuesday, 22 January 2019 adjourned its
proceedings to Monday, 28 January 2019 and has before it a Motion on Notice
that is yet to be argued, seeking the same reliefs as were contained in the
purported ex-parte application, to wit, the suspension of the CJN, amongst
others. We call on the Federal Government to avert the looming
constitutional crisis precipitated by its ill-advised action. In particular,
the Nigerian Bar Association demands the reversal of the purported suspension
of Honorable Mr. Justice Walter S C Onnoghen, GCON. We also call on the
National Assembly to assert its constitutional authority and powers and prevent
this slide into chaos and erosion of the Rule of Law. Paul Usoro, SAN President