By Chiazo Ogbolu  Lagos   –     The Nigerian Institute of Food, Science and Technology (NIFST) on Thursday urged the National Assembly to pass the bill for the establishment of the Nigerian Council of Food Science and Technology (NCFST). The President of NIFST, Mr Wole Toye, made the appeal in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos. According to him, the bill if passed into law will enhance not only the institute’s feasibility but also give practitioners some legal backing to assist the industry and other stakeholders. Toye said that the bill would help in sanitising the industry as a lot of handlers lacked appropriate knowledge of food and its handling. “The number one thing that we seek in earnest this year from the government is for them to take a closer look at the NCFST Bill which has been hanging for so long. “In July 2018, the Senate Committee on Science and Technology invited stakeholders and the general public to a two-day public hearing on the NCFST bill and others and we have presented and are waiting on them. “It has gone through the public hearing, and we are hoping that before the close of this parliament, they can finalise it and send it to the presidency for final assent. “This is our number one focus because it will really enhance not only our feasibility but also give us some legal backing to assist the industry and other stakeholders in policy formulations for the government. “The policy formulation of the government will bring the issue of food processing, food safety and others to the forefront, ’’ he said. The NIFST president said that for more than 40 years, the institute had been operating well; even without being chartered but with the backing of the law, it could do much better. Toye said that the institute, this year, would focus on the activities of the Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) that were into food processing and fabrication. He said that it was to ensure that these local processors and fabricators operate in line with international standards. Toye said that in this era of technology adoption, there was also the need for government to bring out policies that would ensure that people do not lose jobs due to technology. “As regards job loss due to technology adoption, policy implementation should take such into consideration. “The food industry has a chain and for the policy implementation to be effective, government needs to understand what evolves in the chain and implement it in such a way that it takes care of job loss. “Jobs will be lost but the main thing is what is being done as regards training people so that when technology takes over their jobs, there will be other places they can fit in due to that training. “For instance, if one works in a production line of a company and because of technology he is laid off. Now while there, the person having gone for trainings must have gathered experience to fit into another part of the chain. “The challenge is, if we have adequate information about who is who and what they do; these are some of the things the institute is going to try to do by having a database to easily reach out and assisting them in recruitment, ‘’ he said. Toye said that the issue of job loss due to adoption of technology if not handled now would pose a serious problem to the industry in another five years now; and it would be late to handle. He said that to guard against job loss, the institute would be putting out a lot of training models that would be beneficial to people at minimal costs. “The institute is going to embark on engagement in the next few years to make training available at affordable costs and ensure it gets to interested public. “Training is key in things we are embarking upon this year. Of course, training and awareness are inter-twined and we are going to be focusing on this two areas,’’ Toye said. He urged the media to also partner with the institute to ensure the right dissemination of information. Toye said that before now it had been a little bit difficult as the institute was managed solely on annual dues paid by members.