By Ebere AgozieL Abuja – The Federal Government has approved for environmental release, the Pod Borer Resistant (PBR) Cowpea, popularly known as beans, developed by the Institute for Agricultural Research (IAR), Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. The approval was given in a decision document issued by the National
Biosafety Management Agency (NBMA) granting permit for the environmental
release of the PBR Cowpea, which has been genetically modified to
resist the insect pest – Maruca Vitrata. The development means the crop is safe and poses no harm to human and
the environment and can now be submitted to the National Variety
Release Committee for consideration and registration as a commercial
crop in Nigeria. Prof. Ibrahim Abubakar, the Executive Director IAR, in a presentation
on Monday in Abuja, summarised the process that led to the development
of the PBR cowpea. Abubakar said that the decision to venture into genetic modification
in cowpea breeding was due to pest infestation that had over the years
made cowpea farming difficult as farmers were getting less for their
efforts and even exposing their lives to danger because of chemical
spraying to keep the pest away. “Cowpea is the most important food grain legume in Nigeria. The low
yield of the crop in Nigeria is due to many constraints particularly pod
boring insects which cause up to 90 per cent yield loss in severe
infestation cases.” “The PBR Cowpea, by this development becomes the first genetically modified food crop to be approved in the country.’’ Dr Yarama Ndipaya, the Director, Plant Resources, Agricultural
Research Council of Nigeria (ARCN) said that after 10 years of extensive
research, government had deemed it fit to introduce the crop variety
into the nation’s agricultural seed system having met all regulatory
stipulations and scientific procedures. “The introduction will address the national cowpea demand deficit of
about 500,000 tonnes and improve the national productivity average of
350kg/hectare. “After many years of research, the council is proud to present to
Nigerians the first home-grown genetically modified food crop, which has
passed all necessary scientific tests and posed no danger to human
health or the environment. “As the coordinating agency for the over 15 agricultural research
institutes in Nigeria, we have identified modern biotechnology as one
scientific tool whose potential can help improve crop and animal
production. “And we have done this with all sense of responsibility, bearing in
mind both national and international protocols that guide the deployment
of genetic modification.’’ IAR in partnership with the African Agricultural Technology
Foundation (AATF) started the research to address the deadly Maruca
Vitrata attacks on beans in 2009 after series of efforts to use
conventional breeding methods failed to produce results. Dr Abdourhamane Issoufou, the AATF Country Director said since the
mid 1980s, cowpea scientists had declared maruca as the main limiting
factor of cowpea production in Africa hence the intervention of the
foundation based on its principles of providing access to appropriate
technologies by small scale farmers. “AATF was able to obtain access to the Cry1Ab gene used for this
modification on humanitarian basis and worked with institutions in
Nigeria, Ghana, Burkina Faso and Malawi for the transformation. “Today, Nigeria stands tall in the comity of nations for effectively managing and bringing to fruition this dream. “The research results have shown that the PBR-cowpea is safe for
human and animals, completely resistant to Maruca; leads to yield
increase of 20 per cent with fewer sprays of chemical insecticides,” he
said. Prof. Alex Akpa, the Acting Director-General, National Biotechnology
Development Agency (NABDA) said that by the approval, Nigeria has
registered its name among the global scientific community as a country
capable of finding solutions to the country’s challenges. “After 10 years of laboratory works and on-field trials, Nigerian
scientists have developed its first genetically modified food crop, the
PBR Cowpea, we are proud to be associated with this noble development,”
Akpa said.