It appeared odd, if not outright farcical. Reappearing after
disappearing briefly from the dinning-table that memorable morning in
2001, the steward miraculously produced a medium jar of Milo, to the
culinary relief of the choosy one among the guests.Not until our
chief host casually waved off the chef who had tried to tender the
change from the little grocery shopping did it become clear to some of
us why Chief Bisi Akande had momentarily been distracted from the hearty
banter earlier as he gave out some bank notes from his pocket for an
errand obviously intended to be discreet. Actually, one of the
visiting editors would prefer beverage drink to the Lipton tea available
for breakfast. It happened that such “indulgent” brew was not normally
served at the governor’s table at the Osogbo White House then,
reflecting his abstemious taste.On noticing the abstention at the
other end of table from the feasting going on, Baba Akande, long famous
for his disdain for protocols, beckoned the waiter and simply mobilized
him from the pocket of his trademark “danshiki” to do the needful just
across the road outside the Government House, rather than show off power
to the august guests by summoning the whole department supervisor, lest
he ended up making a big ceremony of a simple matter.Fleeting as the
foregoing drama might appear, it typified the culture of frugality Osun
State would know after Akande was sworn in as the second elected
governor in 1999. Such virtue is surely now a rarity in high places
in Nigeria as extravagance is commonly glorified instead of modesty;
debauchery preferred by those of whom chastity is expected.As
Baba Akande then joins the octogenarian club, there can be no better
moment to pause and reflect on an exemplary life, whose cocktail of
trials and triumphs truly inspires, a reminder that politics is at its
noblest when guided by high principle. Today, on account of the
prevalence of political “cross-breeding” of the past three decades in
the South-West in which actors often switch parties and forswear
allegiance with the unpredictability only matched by the fabled
volatility of British weather, the term “Awoist” clearly now bears
different meanings.Well, let it be first acknowledged that it is
within the perimeter of liberty by mutants to lay claims. A fact already
conceded by the sage himself. While offering clarification on the
prospects of immortality, Awolowo had famously declared those who could
truly be called “Awoists” in future would not necessarily be those
related to him by blood or old association, but by shared values. So,
if Awoism could be defined in broad terms as a fierce fidelity to a
progressive ideology, stubborn resolve against compromising principle
however the temptation, and that unquestioning loyalty to the cause of
friendship as exemplified by the very literal meaning of “Afenifere”,
then Baba Akande could perhaps rightly be described today as Awo’s last
general standing in more than one way. Indeed, the referenced
mission to Osogbo that fateful weekend in 2001 was more of fact-finding.
Osun had been engulfed by a debilitating industrial crisis. Workers
wanted higher wage. Akande, in turn, opened the books to show that the
state’s meager earnings could not fund the raise the labour wanted. As
tension swirled around the province of the fabled “living
spring”, a homeboy who happened to be a senior journalist decided to
weigh in, perhaps as a civic contribution to his troubled homeland in
search of solution. Drawing on “professional solidarity”, he pressed
this writer as THISDAY editor then and a few other newspaper editors to
visit from Lagos to not only engage the governor directly but also have a
first-hand feel of Osun reality with a view to better understanding the
raging crisis. So, for more than two hours, we literally grilled
the governor in a brutally frank exchange in which no hard punch was
spared. Like a seasoned matador, Baba Akande took all the darts, not
dodging any, sometimes resorting to native humour to explain his
difficulties. From that frank conversation, his position was
unambiguous: the only option available to meet the workers’ demand then
was to go on borrowing spree. To him, that was unthinkable on ethical
grounds. It simply meant stealing from the unborn generation. There
were a few other things he also could not contemplate, out of
ideological fidelity to welfarist values. One of which was the bias for
social spending in form of free and compulsory education to Osun
children so much that between 1999 and 2001, a colossal N522.85m had
been spent as subsidy on education. The magnitude is better appreciated
considering that Osun’s entire annual budget then was a few billions of
Naira. Expectedly, before leaving town, we visited a number of
projects being undertaken by Akande including the construction and
furnishing of hundreds of modern classrooms to meet the inherited huge
deficit at both primary and secondary levels.Leaving Osun
two days later, one could not but now see Akande and the Osun impasse
in two inter-related lights. One was the uncommon fortitude he brought
to bear in defending Awo’s core value – free education as a tool to
fostering an egalitarian society. Second was the dialectical crisis
arising from the former. Osun’s fiscal failure spoke, in turn, directly
to the crisis of federalism in Nigeria. Indeed, the state, like most
others across the Nigeria, would only continue to manage poverty, given
the prevailing queer federal architecture. For
instance, studies confirm that Ilesha is rich in gold. But Nigeria’s own
warped federalism forbids states from exploiting the riches of their
soil to better themsleves. Everyone is made to forfeit ownership to a
buccaneering Leviathan at the centre which, in turn, dispenses crumbs to
the federating units by a principle that glorifies predation than
production. So, the gripping irony: even though living by the river, the proverbial swamp-dweller is left to die of thirst. The
enduring fiscal crisis can hardly be divorced from one grave oversight
at the founding of the present Republic, however. By 1999, the nation
had clearly grown weary of military occupation and appeared too
impatient to see the back of the now discredited generals to have had
the presence of mind to detect before hand that the working document
handed down as chart for the democracy voyage ahead was, at best,
faulty. Once the euphoria petered out, disillusionment naturally set
in. So, barons of Alliance for Democracy like Akande contemplating the
imposition of a progressive agenda soon found they were a minority
pitched against ruthless conservative forces, fiercely committed to
preserving the existing predatory order at the centre. In hindsight,
it would perhaps not be too harsh now to accuse the early optimists of
sheer naivety in trusting Obasanjo too much on account of merely
professing being “born-again democrat” and expecting a fulfillment of
the inaugural promise to consider structural change.But
adapting military stratagem of ambush for a purely civil outcome, OBJ
would intensify such lip-service to seduce the grandees of the
progressive community in South-west into lowering their guard at home
until they were routed electorally in one fell swoop in 2003.Alas,
the newly politically displaced would realise too late that the hyena
remains and acts like the hyena, regardless of the fancy apparel
deployed as disguise.Ironically, that electoral defeat of 2003 would
now appear Akande’s own defining moment. Others would have
willingly entered into any deal to secure comfort, however temporary.
But Akande was not ready to compromise his principle of prudence and
accountability. Not even OBJ, the eternal narcissist, would fail to
admit Akande’s honesty in a rare acknowledgement of good in any human
being other than himself.While fielding questions a year after PDP’s
historic capture of South-West (except Lagos), he said: “Chief Bisi
Akande of Osun State is the only governor whose integrity I can vouch
for.”But honesty is only one of the qualities that set
Akande apart. Equally discernible in his political odyssey is the virtue
of consistency – a rarity in a political environment where folks would
trade honour and betray associates just for mere accommodation by anyone
in power. Rather than be tamed, he parlayed that political
adversity to an opportunity to rededicate himself to the advocacy of
progressive values. Not surprising, his has since remained a
trenchant voice for a return to fiscal federalism as originally
conceived by the 1960 constitution as the most sustainable prescription
for equity and justice in the increasingly conflicted Nigerian family. A
true measure of character is said to be where an actor stands in the
season of moral crisis. Nigeria’s 90s was undoubtedly defined by the
popular resistance of military despotism symbolized by June 12. When it
was most perilous, Akande stood to be counted among those who valiantly
fought the military. By falling for the carrots dangled by IBB and
Abacha, not a few Awoists would forfeit their own reputation. Those who
returned from the dingy dalliance with the military during that
momentous decade found themselves carrying mortal scar forever. They
became enfeebled by emotional fracture arising from being estranged from
old comrades, thus losing their voices in the civil space henceforth. Also,
the murk that permeated the Jonathan era would prove pestilential for
some other Awoists of old. Ordinarily, being found in varying
compromising positions with barons of the then presiding conservative
party would be enough heresy already. With the details of how dollars
meant to buy arms to fight Boko Haram was also generously shared in
South-West ahead of the 2015 general elections by desperate Jonathan to
buy support now public knowledge, many more have since become a bit more
subtle in openly displaying their Awo cap in Yorubaland, more out of
shame than self-restraint.In their quiet moments today, those
implicated in that abominable tryst must be feeling bitter regret,
humbled by shame at being found to have toiled all their youth building a
worthy name only to be caught in strange – if not seedy – company in
their hoary days. Coincidentally, it was in the same season that
Akande’s political stock rose sharply. The titan from Ila-Orangun would
undoubtedly go down in history as the man who as Interim Chairman
inspired a broad coalition of progressives and some conservative rebels
to unseat the ruling reactionary party in Nigeria in 2015. Thus,
Akande would seem to have fulfilled yet another of Awo’s old prophecies:
“For the progressive to be in power they need the support and
collaborations of some conservatives. After attaining power, the
conservatives would on their own, walk away. The progressive would now
build a great party that would move the nation forward.”If we then
remember the sordid circumstances under which likes of Atiku broke away
from APC last year, we cannot but be in awe of the sage’s prescience. No
less compelling, therefore, is the need to also salute Akande’s abiding
faithfulness as the last of Awo’s cavalrymen standing.