By Nkiru Ifeajuna Lagos – Some residents of Lagos State have appealed to the government to lift the ban it imposed on street carnivals some years ago ,especially, during Yuletide. They told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that carnivals used to
spread brotherhood and faith among residents living within a particular
neighbourhood. They also said that they strengthened the spirit of reunion among
relatives and relations who used to look forward to meeting themselves
on such occasions. They said that Yuletide without street carnivals was like a soup
without salt and other condiments that would make it taste delicious
especially for youths. According to them, carnivals are important because they are the oxygen of society and life of any society. NAN reports that the Lagos State Government (LASG) banned streets
carnivals in the state some years ago saying that such used to be
avenues for hoodlums and thugs to unleash terror on innocent citizens. The government had since introduced “One Lagos Fiesta’’ usually
celebrated in the five old divisions of the state: Lagos, Ikeja,
Badagry, Epe and Ikorodu respectively. Peter Nwafor, popularly known as “Dj Peezy’’ who participated in the
2017 “One Lagos Fiesta’’ told NAN that such events always happen
annually and that they used to serve as sources of reunion among
families. “Most carnivals now celebrated in forms of festivals bring people of
different ethnic groups living within the same environment together to
rejoice with one another. “It promotes diverse cultures by bringing people from different
ethnic groups together and begin to regard themselves as one indivisible
entity,” he said. He said that government should illuminate every street with
street-lights and put security in place to guide against street urchins
hijacking street carnivals. “Different local governments can organise carnivals within their
council areas to promote what they are best known for that can impact
positively on them and the state,” he said. Nwafor said that such events could also attract tourists and boost the tourism industry sector. A dancer, Promise Idiala, who also participated in the `One Lagos
Fiesta’ advised organisers  of the festival to always be transparent in
relating with those they would recruit to work for them. He said that would bring sanity and orderliness to carnivals and festivals. He also suggested that there should be meetings where all the
relevant stakeholders should agree that their followers would maintain
peace and security during the shows. Mr Femi Odulami, who had organised youths for festival in the past,
told NAN that stakeholders should engage in proper planning for them to
achieve success. He advised youths recruited as ad-hoc staff to always exercise
patience with the organisers so that the events could go as planned. “However, when you want to explain the situation of things to the
youth, they will not have the patience to listen to you and they will
start destroying things,” he said. Also, a musician, Ismael Lawal, popularly known as “King Songo’’,
told NAN that besides a festival being to for fun, well-managed ones and
events offer economic and social benefits to the host communities. “It boosts the economy of the host community, because its residents
will produce souvenirs such as: caps, T-shirts and cups for sales to
visitors and guests,” he said. Lawal said that carnivals should be encouraged but with
well-thought-out plans so that there would not be problems during and
after it. “Street carnivals bring community together and youths can from there
begin to organise themselves to do something meaningful for themselves
and their community,” he said. NAN reports that carnivals usually include concerts, music,
competitions, contests, games, fairs lectures, meals eating and drinking
parades. These are usually organised by youths within communities mostly during Yuletide.