Ilorin – The Federal Government says the statements by the US and UK on election rigging in Nigeria have confirmed its recent alert that opposition elements are working to scuttle the 2019 polls through widespread violence. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed who said
this in a statement issued in Ilorin on Friday said the Government
welcomed the statements from the US and UK demanding credible and
peaceful election in Nigeria. He said that Government also welcomed the threat of punitive measures
against election riggers and perpetrators of electoral violence. In the statement signed by his Special Adviser, Mr Segun Adeyemi, the
minister said the Government was particularly delighted that the
statements came after it alerted the nation to the plot by opposition to
scuttle the polls. ”A few days ago, we alerted the nation to the plot by the opposition
to orchestrate widespread violence in the country, using insurgents and
criminal elements within and outside the country. ”Their plan is to scuttle the election and then push for an interim
government, having realized they can’t win a free, fair, credible and
peaceful elections. ”The fact that those statements came after we issued our red alert,
which is based on credible intelligence, shows that the international
community is closely monitoring events ahead of the election. “We urge them to keep a close tab on the desperate opposition, whose
language, actions and undisguised threats are antithetical to the
conduct of peaceful polls,” he said. The minister said Nigerians and the international community should
take seriously the assurance of a credible and violence-free election
that has been consistently given by President Muhammadu Buhari, a
tried-and-tested democrat and a globally-acclaimed man of integrity. He said the APC-led administration was very confident of victory in the forthcoming elections. The minister stressed that a party that was not so desperate as to
rig election while in opposition had no business rigging election or
perpetrating violence now that it is in power and is enjoying massive
support from the citizenry. He called on the international community to keep a close eye
on those who are spending more time on a dubious strategy of scuttling
the polls than campaigning to win in a free, fair and peaceful election. ”As their campaign flounders and their strategies collapse, they have resorted to seeking power by subterfuge. “That is why they are doing everything possible to discredit an
election that has yet to be held by unleashing their attack dogs on
INEC, the police and the entire electoral process. ”On our part, we have confidence in the electoral process and the
institutions saddled with organizing and securing the election. ”That is why we have been busy campaigning vigorously across the
country, attracting unprecedented, organic crowds everywhere we go. ”The party that has a history of rigging polls is well known to Nigerians. ”The party that has a history of using security forces to unleash
violence in order to steal the people’s votes is well known to
Nigerians. ”The party that organised an election that was later described as
flawed by its own ‘winning’ presidential candidate is well known to
Nigerians. “That party is not the All Progressives Congress (APC),” he said.