By Abiodun Lawal Abeokuta,  – The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) has warned its officials to shun any act of insubordination and indiscipline that will affect the defence of students’ rights across the country. Mr Azeez Adeyemi, the National Public Relations Officer of the association gave the warning in Abeokuta on Sunday. Adeyemi urged all officials of NANS to adhere strictly to their
functions and carry out responsibilities assigned to their portfolios in
accordance with the association’s constitution. He said that his attention was drawn to recent acts of
insubordination being perpetrated by some officials of NANS, who
disregarded the various interventions embarked upon by the association’s
President, Mr Danielson Akpan. “Precisely on Jan. 17, a statement was purportedly issued by the
Senate President of NANS in defence of the decision of the
Akwa-Ibom Government that defaulted in paying bursaries or granting
scholarships to indigenous students. “He is not the chief representative, chief executive or official
spokesman of NANS and could not have been in any position both on
constitutional and moral grounds to issue such a statement. “The office of the public relations officer remains the mouthpiece and image maker of the association. “We warn that further involvement of any NANS official against the
legitimate agitation of Akwa-Ibom students will be deemed as anti
–student,’’ Adeyemi said in a statement. He said that the national leadership of NANS would no longer tolerate
any act of indiscipline or insubordination by any official of the body. According to him, it is the right of the students to cry out when
neglected and seek redress whenever or wherever injustice is meted on
them. “Akwa-Ibom students are fighting a just cause and the NANS leadership
will defend their rights and join in the struggle,’’ Adeyemi said. He urged the Akwa-Ibom Government to emulate other states who, in
spite of the certain challenges, were able to gather funds to offset
bursary payment and grant scholarships to their indigenes. The NANS spokesperson explained that the association would resist any
attempt to create division or weaken the voice and strength of Nigerian
students.