By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiat Post) At last, former Secretary to the Government
of the Federation, Babachir Lawal and erstwhile National Intelligence Agency
(NIA) Ayodele Oke would face trial as the Economic and Financial Crimes
Commission (EFCC) on Wednesday filed charges against them in court for
prosecution. The EFCC filed a 10-count charge against former Secretary to the
Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr Babachir David Lawal. The anti-graft agency also filed four charges of alleged
fraud against a former Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency
(NIA), Ayodele Oke and his wife, Folashade before the Federal High Court in Lagos. Recall
that the former SGF was sacked by President Muhammadu
Buhari in 2017 following his alleged indictment. They were charged over a huge sum of money found in an
apartment in Ikoyi, Lagos. Oke and his wife will be arraigned in court tomorrow, while
Lawal will be in court next week. The anti-corruption agency, through its counsel, Uffem Uket,
filed the charge with the number CR/158/19 at the High Court of the Federal
Capital Territory (FCT). Charged alongside Babachir were Hamidu David Lawal; Sulaiman
Abubakar; Apeh John Monday; Rholavision Engineering Ltd and Josmoh Technologies
Ltd. While the charge stated that both Babachir and Hamidu were
directors in Rholavision, Abubakar was a staff member of the company and Monday
said to be the Managing Director of Josmom Technologies Ltd. ALSO READ: ICPC: 2 NGO
officials bag 9 years imprisonment According to the charge seen by the Nigerian Tribune on
Wednesday evening, the defendants were alleged to have conspired to commit an
offence to wit: fraudulent acquisition of property and thereby committed an
offence contrary to Section 26(1)(c) of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related
Offences Act, 2000, punishable under Section 12 of the same Act. The former SGF was alleged to have, while as a director in
Rholavision, did knowingly hold indirectly a private interest in the
consultancy contract awarded to Rholavision for the removal of invasive plant
species and simplified irrigation to the tune of N7,009,515.96 by the Office of
the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF) through the Presidential
Initiative for North-East (PINE). By this, according to EFCC, Babachir committed an offence
punishable under Section 12 of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences
Act, 2000. The sacked SGF was further alleged to have knowingly held
indirectly a private interest in the consultancy contract awarded to
Rholavision for the removal of invasive plant species and simplified irrigation
to the tune of N6,453,318.38 awarded by the OSGF through PINE. Hamidu David Lawal, Sulaiman Abubakar, Apeh John Monday, Rholavision
were said to have abetted holding of private interest by Babachir in the award
of contract to Josmon Technologies Ltd for removal of invasive plant species
and simplified irrigation by OSGF through PINE to the tune of N258,132,735.00. The contract was said to have been executed by Rholavision
Engineering Ltd. The offence, according to EFCC, was contrary to Section
26(1)(c) of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act, 2000,
punishable under Section 12 of the same Act.