4By Olanrewaju Akojede Lagos – Mr Omoleye Olabode, the African Democratic Congress (ADC) candidate for the Federal House of Representatives, Abeokuta North/Obafemi Owode/Odeda Federal Constituency, on Saturday called for the development of Ogun border towns. Olabode made the call during a visit to the Magboro Community for the ward meeting. He noted that the Ogun border towns played important role in the revenue generation drive of the state and if well-developed would provide more internally generated revenue for the state. “From what I have seen, border towns in Ogun have contributed immensely to the development of the state in terms of revenue generation but sadly, they have suffered under-development for the past years. “The border towns are gateways to the economic prosperity of the state because of the large concentration of industries there and also proximity to Lagos State. “There is a need to develop these communities if we want to be sincere about shoring up the revenue of the state. “It is not that the previous governments have not tried in their own ways but the concentration has been too much at the centre. “Too much concentration at the centre has greatly affected the development of other communities, which are also critical to the revenue generation of the state,’’ Olabode said. He said that the ADC would ensure that prompt attention is given to the affected community if voted into power. “We in ADC are ready to correct the anomaly, if voted into power in the coming election. “We have moved round these communities to see for ourselves what their needs are and by the grace of God, we will swing into action. “These communities are in dire need of social infrastructure facilities such as roads, schools, community hospitals and other amenities. These are part of what will engage our attention. “We can do better in revenue generation by investing in these communities. “First, in the provision of their basic infrastructure development needs. By this, we will encourage them to also contribute to the revenue drive. “We also understand that the people, the electorate must come first. So, in addition to that, we will also engage in skill acquisition programmes to improve the welfare of the people,’’ Olabode said. (NAN)