By Yemi Adeleye Lagos –  Several youth groups on Wednesday adopted and endorsed Mr Bayo Osinowo, the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for Lagos East Senatorial District, describing him as masses-friendly. The groups, across various Local Government and Local Council Development Area (LCDAs) in the district, gave the endorsement at the inauguration of the Bayo Osinowo Directorate of Youths and Students Mobilisation. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the inauguration, which was organised by Mr Segun Olulade, the Director General of the Directorate, had about 200 youth leaders in attendance. The event was held at the campaign office of Osinowo at Ketu, Lagos. Representatives of the National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN), South West; National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), South West and the National Union of Lagos State Students (NULASS) were in attendance at the endorsement. Speaking to NAN, Mr Saliu Adekunle, Vice President, NYCN, South West said that the group was endorsing Osinowo because he had helped so many students in the state. Adekunle said the student group believed that with Osinowo at the Senate, students would get more dividends of democracy, He expressed confidence that the APC candidate would win the contest as the group in the district would mobilise for him. Also speaking, Mr Quadri Ayoade, the Public Relations Officer (PRO), NANS, South West, described Osinowo as a grassroots politician with much influence on the youths. According to Ayoade, efforts will be made to mobilise students and canvass for votes to ensure victory for Osinowo. Mr Adedayo Adebogun, the PRO, APC Volunteers, Lagos, an umbrella of volunteer youth groups for APC, said Osinowo had not failed the people as member of the Lagos State House of Assembly. Adebogun said that the APC senatorial candidate had been a great asset to the state as a unifier and stabiliser. Prince Sadiq Adeesho, a former Vice President, NANS, told NAN that the endorsement was an authentication of the interest and love people had for Osinowo. “He is a grassroots mobiliser; he is highly committed to the manifesto of the party, and above all, he is also a philanthropist beyond politics. “He has been able to affect so many people. We are happy to identify with him,” Adeesho, the pioneer President of Omoluabi Youth group said. In his remarks, Olulade said Osinowo was a great politician of deep experience, and his influence cut across all sections, groups and strata of Lagos. Olulade, member representing Epe Constituency II in the Lagos Assembly, said the youths were gathered from all 16 LGAs and LCDAs that made up Lagos East Senatorial District. “All these are youths from Lagos East; we have the student unions across all our institutions in Lagos East. We have NANS, NYCN, NULASS, party youth leader and so many youth groups in this district. “They have all come here to declare support for the “Pepperito”, APC senatorial candidate for Lagos East and all other candidates of the party. “They are all committed to ensure that our candidate wins the election. They are our ambassadors, they are going out there to canvass for votes. “They have promised us that we are going to have 1 million votes in Lagos East. “This is their promise and they have the capacity to deliver. They are ready for the job,” Olulade said. According to him, the youth leaders numbering about 200 from various groups are spread across all the wards, LGAs and LCDAs in the district. Mr Charles Odugbesi, a former State Secretary of APC and Director General, Hon. Bayo Osinowo Campaign, said that he was overwhelmed with the support. He said that the support was a reassurance of victory for Osinowo. “With what I have seen today, it is an assurance that we have won the election. “With the level of these youths’ intelligence and commitment, we have won already,” the director said. Odugbesi, who urged the youth groups to work hard, said God would reward their labour. (NAN)