By Joan Nwagwu Abuja – The Federal Government says that the report and the recommendation of the Tripartite Committee on the new National Minimum Wage(TCNMW) is not binding on what the new wage should be. Sen. Chris Ngige, Minister of Labour and Employment, said on Friday
in Abuja in a statement signed by Mrs Rhoda Iliya, Assistant Director,
Press in the ministry, that the report has no final say. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that the tripartite
committee had recommended N30,000 as a new minimum wage to the Federal
Government, However, the Federal Government had on Thursday sent an executive
bill of N27,000 minimum wage to the National Assembly after approval by
the National Council of State. NAN also reports that the organised Labour had rejected the
N27,000inimum Wage and pledged to engage the National Assembly members. Ngige said that various misrepresentations had been given to the
Press Briefing on the New National Minimum Wage, held at Aso Villa on
January 22, after the meeting of the National Council of State. He said that President Muhammadu Buhari constituted the Tripartite
Committee on National Minimum wage at the expiration of the last
national minimum wage Act, which was enacted in 2011. He said that the committee’s recommendation could be subjected to an
upward review, saying that the government respected the International
Labour Organisation convention on the issue. According to him, the output from the TCNMW was therefore never meant
to be sacrosanct but to provide a guide for the Federal Government to
take final decision. ” The ILO Conventions on Minimum Wage cited above succinctly
stipulate that each member state shall be free to decide the nature and
form of the minimum wage fixing machinery, and methods to be followed in
its operation. “The report of the committee asked Mr President to note the figure of
N30, 000 recommended by the TCNMW by way of motion and not by
consensus, and also to note the Federal Government’s figure of N24, 000. ” Mr President considered the report in full and looked at the
differing statistics and figures presented before he arrived at N27, 000
(as the new minimum wage). ” I must reiterate that the output by the TCNMW was a recommendation
and is not cast in stone but advisory to Mr. President,” he said. Ngige said that the new minimum wage was for all categories of workers in public and private sectors. According to him, those who are opposed to it should go to the
National Assembly to argue their case during public hearing on the
matter. “The matter of a National Minimum Wage is in the Exclusive
Legislative List as item No. 34 of the Second Schedule to the 1999
Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended). “It is therefore the executive arm of government that has the
responsibility to prescribe a new National Minimum Wage and send to the
National Assembly for legislative action. “It is important therefore to ask the different groups who have
interest agreeing or disagreeing on the contents of the bill already
transmitted to NASS to get ready to make their views known at the Public
Hearing, “the minister said.(NAN)