By Ifeanyi Olannye Asaba – Peter Obi, the Vice Presidential Candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on Thursday lauded the job creation initiative of Delta Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa. Obi gave the commendation after a tour of a job  Creatin exhibition
in Asaba mounted by beneficiaries of  Okowa’s youths empowerment and
entrepreneurial programmes drawn from across the state. He said that the job creation initiative could only be compared with
that of Tony Elumelu Foundation, adding that the focus of every
government should be on how to create employment. According to him, Elumelu is from Delta, so, other governments should come to Delta and learn how to grow business enterprises. “The focus of every government is to create employment and you can’t
solve unemployment anywhere in the world without promoting micro and
small enterprises. “So, what governor Okowa is doing through the job creation office is
training people and giving them the funding to start their own business. “I don’t want to compare them with those who give people N10,000 without training. “Who do we even know that they are giving the money, how will they
collect the money? But  here Okowa train them and support them with
funding to establish their businesses.” Earlier, Okowa had said that the economic downturn on his assumption
of office had threatened to abort and derailed his campaign promise of
prosperity for all Deltans, but he remained resolute. “However, we refused to be deterred, convinced and confident that our
novel job creation scheme, geared at nurturing, supporting and
promoting micro, small and medium scale enterprises would trigger off
economic growth, social inclusion and sustainable development. “We commenced implementation of our enterprise development Programme
in form of the Skills Training and Entrepreneurship Programme (STEP) and
Youth Agricultural Entrepreneurs Programme (YAGEP). “Through the job creation scheme, 4,253 unemployed youths have become
business owners across the various skills such as information,
communication technology, catering, event management, beauty services,
agricultural production and processing, food packaging, tilling,
plumbing, and  electrical installation,” he said. The governor said some entrepreneurs raised by the programme had
become employers of labour which multiplier effects on the family and
that of the state remained significant. (NAN)