By Folasade Adeniran  Lagos – The Association of Nigerian Traders at the Alaba International Market, Ojo, has endorsed the Governorship candidate of the Alliance for Democracy(AD), Chief Owolabi Salis, as the next governor of the state. The association gave its endorsement while hosting the governorship candidate on Thursday in Lagos. Its Vice-Chairman, Mr Amadoye Nnamdi, said the traders had agreed to
support Salis by giving him their votes in the forthcoming election. Nnamdi said: “Salis has visited us to share his ambition for Lagos
State and assured us that by the time he gets to the position, he is
going to remember us in his plan. “This is the reason why we are so much interested in him, and again, because he has no God-father. “By the time he becomes governor, he is going to be making decisions
that will be of advantage to the masses, nobody is going to tell him
what to do. “He has also told us that nobody is compelling him to contest and we
believe that when he gets there, there will be no one to influence him
wrongly. “We have also told him to be and remain a man of his words when he
gets there so that he will be of great advantage to the masses and that
is why we want to give him the opportunity.” The vice-chairman of the market also expressed worry over the issue
of god-fatherism in the country, saying that “it is a development that
will not take the country anywhere”. It is better we deal with this problem of god-fatherism in the
country because once politicians know that it all depends on the people
to bring them to power, they will always fulfill the numerous promises
they make during election campaigns. “Sometimes, I wonder if there is a kind of devil that enters into
aspirants and makes them forget their promises once they get to that
seat but I pray that Salis will not be like that when he gets there. “In as much as he has come to this place to speak to us, Alaba
International Market will support him, we will give him our votes and by
the special grace of God he is going to win,” he said. On how he will transform Alaba Market, Salis said one of the reasons
why he visited the international market was to know their demands and
what they expect from him when he becomes the governor. He said: “I have travelled to different countries, including China
and the popular electronic market there. I know that the Igbos are very
industrious and I will also want them to look into practical education
and that is where we are going to come in. “Nigerians have the skills, it is just that we are not getting the
right exposure, so, we are going to be investing more in “made in
Nigeria products.”