By Tinuade Adeshiyan Lagos – Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye, Executive Secretary, Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), says President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration is not a safe haven for people with stolen money or looted  assets. Owasanoye said this in
his paper at a one-day conference on Nigeria’s Foreign Policy under
President Muhammadu Buhari Administration (2015-2019) held at Nigerian
Institute of International Affairs (NIIA), Lagos on Thursday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the paper was entitled “War Against Corruption and Nigeria’s Foreign Policy’’ “President Muhammadu Buhari administration is not a safe haven for
anybody that has stolen money and and anybody fighting corruption cannot
have friends,” he said. According to Owasanoye,
President Buhari has demonstrated his commitment to the fight against
corruption such that no one is in doubt of his administration’s stance
on corruption. “His administration
exposed many Illicit Financial Flows(IFF) going on in the country and as
well exposed some government officials who looted funds and kept it in
unknown bank accounts or kept in foreign banks. “Today, corruption is a
major threat to the corporate existence of Nigeria as it undermines
public institutions, destroys investment climate, subverts the rule of
law, perpetuates human rights abuses, allowed crimes, among others. “Now, discussion at the
international level without reference to War Against Corruption cannot
be complete without referencing PMB efforts,” the presidential aide
said. He said that the president was influencing global narrative and changing global orientations about Nigeria. “His efforts to stop
corruption has increased bilateral, regional and international
partnership under the African Union (AU), United Nations (UN) and World
Bank on issues of asset tracing, recovery and return. “Also consistent in
exploring relevant platforms in international and regional gathering to
emphasise the need to fight IFF, encourage asset return and increase
punishment for corruption,” Owasanoye said. Owasanoye said that PMB
administration would continue to fight corruption as anything that
undermined national security, political stability, and the growth of the
country should be fought to a standstill. (NAN)