By Lucy Nwachukwu Abuja – The African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) has signed a facility agreement lending 170 million dollars to an Egypt-based conglomerate, Orascom Investment Holding (OIH), to assist the company expand its pan-African activities. Prof. Benedict
Oramah, Afreximbank’s President, in a statement signed by the bank’s
Head of Media, Mr Obi Emekekwue, on Friday in Abuja said the facility
would boost OIH’s short and medium-term expansion strategy. According to
Oramah, the facility agreement is part of the bank’s effort to promote
intra-African investments and export manufacturing using the framework
of its Intra-African Investment Finance Facility. He said :“ the
transaction is a significant opportunity for OIH’s targeted investments
in companies across Africa to support their transformation, increase
their production capacity and produce higher quality exports. “This will be
done through better value addition, especially in the agro-processing
sector and the agreement will set up a long-term strategic partnership
between OIH and Afreximbank. “The facility
will complement ongoing macroeconomic and safety net reforms in Egypt
which seek to foster sector-specific economic growth, especially in
strategic sectors with proven record of creating jobs and reducing
poverty. “ Orascom is
one of the most successful and diverse holding companies in the North
Africa region with the potential of assisting the bank in expanding its
operations in the regional and Egyptian markets. “Our
collaboration opens the potential for our two institutions to strengthen
their relationship and mutual cooperation in order to make significant
contributions towards unlocking the full potentials of intra-African
investment.’’ The Chairman
of OIH, Naguib Sawiris, said the company was focused at investing in
Africa, adding that the continent would only achieve progress with
improved intra-African trade and investment. Sawiris said it was up to the Africans to come together to ensure improved intra-African trade and investment. He commended
Afreximbank for the quick turnaround in processing the transaction and
for the professionalism and dedication shown by the Afreximbank team. He said
:“Orascom Investment will explore business and investment opportunities
referred to it by Afreximbank in Rwanda, Togo, Eretria, Nigeria and Sao
Tome.’’