By Collins Yakubu-Hammer Abuja – Vivian Nelson, an Abuja based rising actress has urged parents not to give out their underage girl children for marriage. He stated this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Abuja. Nelson, a graduate of Theatre Arts from the University of Abuja, said
that the girl-child needs education to the highest level, while it is
the duty and responsibility of parents to give their female children
education and not marriage. “The fact that a person is born a female is not a crime; a girl-child
has the brain and ability to do what the male-child can do, even
better. “Young girls have bright future; they want to go to school, get
educated and create impact in the society, but early marriage has
destroyed most of them. “Giving out an 11 year-old girl for marriage is a crime against
humanity; putting a girl under the stress of marriage at that age is
bad. “They are too young for that; they are to be in school learning. The
men cannot do it all; women too have a role to play in the development
of the society. “I would humbly advise parents to shun craving for material things and falling for financial enticement. “Parents should not use poverty as excuse to give out their female
children for marriage; they should not see their female children as cash
cows,’’ Nelson said. The talented actress, who recently acted the role of Nafisah in a
stage drama that discourages girl-child marriage, said that female
children have dreams and aspirations. She emphasised that the parents should love their children and figure
out what the children wants and not what the parents want for the
children. “Parents should give their female children the chance to make choices
and get married at their desired time and not when the parents want or
don’t have money. “I am begging every mother out there to give their female children
the chance to go to school to become what they want and get married. “Giving out underage girls for marriage will destroy them; these
girls can die during child birth. It is not a good experience for a
child to become mother,” Nelson said. She, however, appealed to government at all levels to intensify efforts to domesticate the Child Right Act. According to her, government possesses all the instrument to ensure the effective enforcement of the laws. “The female children don’t have a voice, because they feel it is part of their tradition; this must stop as it is killing them. “However, there are laws against such practices; government should create more agencies to fight against girl child marriage. “Also, female children should be courageous enough to speak out
against early marriage; they should talk to their parents, especially
their mothers. “There are agencies and people that could help to reach out to government and in turn reach out to their parents,’’ she said.