By Augusta Uchediunor Lagos – The Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) says it is collaborating with the Lagos State Government to reopen Ashade level crossing which was closed to motorists following a recent train derailment. Mr Jerry Oche, the Railway District Manager, Lagos State, told the
News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Lagos that the corporation was
working with the state government to raise the road level to meet the
rail track. According to him, the step has become imperative to guard against future derailment and accidents. Oche said: “A level crossing is made up of two components – the track and the road. We have done the track component. “The road component of the level crossing is not for us, it is for Lagos State. “Here is a good news because of our very good relationship with the Lagos State Government, we have been discussing with them. “What makes Ashade level crossing unique is the fact that the track
is higher than road. As the vehicles come in, it is like climbing a
mountain with the track as the peak. “What we agree with the Lagos State Government is that instead of
having this mountain and a peak; fill the size of the roads, reduce the
slope and this the government has accepted to do. “The reason it has not been open is that we are dealing with the
issue and discussing with the government. They have agreed to do that.
The only thing we will be doing as NRC is to supervise to ensure that we
get equal level. “The Lagos State is handling this. I have been in discussion with the
Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Transport. That is why
that road has not been opened and it is not because of our own track
aspect.’’ Oche said that for people to understand why that place has not been opened, they needed to know the genesis of that accident. According to him, on Tuesday night (Jan. 8), a truck while crossing
the level crossing pulled check rail, which is always at every level
crossing to guide the train. “When this was pulled out, our track men went and fixed it on
Wednesday (Jan. 9) and train ran. On Thursday (Jan. 10), we had the
accident, a derailment, where one wagon derailed and pull two other
wagons and in the process one wagon capsized. “Because that is a spot that we were already given attention, we had to do proper work on that level crossing,” he said. NAN reports that on Jan. 10, a train coming from Ijoko, Ogun State,
heading to Apapa, Lagos, derailed at Ashade level crossing, Mangoro area
of Agege Local Government Area. The accident, which killed one person and left several persons
injured, had made the corporation to close the level crossing for the
usage of motorists since then. NAN reports that a level crossing is where a track and road crosses
on the same level to allow train and vehicles to conveniently pass.