By Afusat Agunbiade-Oladipo Ilorin – One of the prosecution witnesses in the ongoing Offa robbery case, Insp  Hitila Hassan, said on Friday that no fewer than 21 AK 47 rifles were stolen from the armoury of a police station in the community. The witness, who  was being led by the prosecutor, Prof. Wahab
Egbewole, spoke  at the resumed hearing of the case at an Ilorin High
Court. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that no fewer than 33
people, including nine policemen, were killed in the bloody robbery on
April 5, 2018. The witness identified  the five accused persons undergoing trial  as  accomplices of the late main  suspect, Micheal Adikwu. They are Ayoade Akinnibosun, Ibikunle Ogunleye, Adeola Abraham, Salaudeen Azeez and Niyi Ogundiran. He also told the court that the Closed Circuit Television (CCTV)
footages of the robbed banks disclosed the identity of the accused, 
culminating in  their arrest. Hassan, an officer attached to the Inspector General of Police 
Intelligence Response Team (IRT), said other members of the gang were
still at large. IRT was set up by the former IGP Ibrahim Idris and is headed by an  Assistant Commissioner of Police, Abba Kyari. He said his team was in  Ilorin on the directive of  the then IGP  to fish out the perpetrators of the dastardly act. Hassan said his team worked with  officers of the Criminal Investigation Department on its assignment. “ We visited the armoury at Offa Police Station  where we discovered
that no fewer than 21 AK 47 rifles were carted away by the armed
robbers. “We also gathered from the accused persons that the late Michael
Adikwu after the attacks on the banks headed for the police station and
started shouting that he had come on a revenge mission over his
dismissal from the force. “Then he started shooting sporadically in every direction at the station. “Having carefully watched the footages of the CCTV,  we identified
the faces in the camera and then  circulated them in the social media
for Nigerians to assist us in the arrest of the culprits. “Through that we generated our intelligence that led to the arrest of
one Ibikunle Ogunleye in Oro, Irepodun Local Government Area of the
state. “Initially, he denied having anything to do with the incident but
when confronted with CCTV evidence, he confessed and said he was one of
the persons inside the banks wielding AK47 rifles. “His arrest assisted us in the arrest of four other accused persons standing trial,’’ he said. Earlier, Insp Yusuf  Dauda, an exhibit keeper at the headquarters of the Nigeria Police in  Ilorin,  also testified. He said  on April 10, 2018, a former Divisional Police Officer in
Offa Local Government, CSP Danjuma Adamu,  handed to him some weapons
and ammunition allegedly used in the robbery operation. Dauda said that the ammunition included 39 expended 7.6mm ammunition,
four  expended 5.6mm, two  expended blank cartridges, four  used
bullets, one live 5.6mm ammunition, one cartridge safety box on which
Ikoyi South West, Lagos, Nigeria,  was written and a damaged padlock. He also said that on April 15, 2018, Hassan attached to the IGP
response team,  also brought one Lexus Jeep on which a sticker bearing,
 “Saraki, ” was written with its  key, a Kompressor Mercedes Benz and
four stickers bearing “Saraki ” The prosecution tendered all the items as exhibits in the case. Justice Halimat Salman adjourned the case till Feb. 19 and Feb. 20  for continuation of hearing.(NAN)