By Okeoghene Akubuike/Uche Bibilari Abuja – The Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN) says Nigerian teachers will undergo digital literacy training as part of their mandatory professional development programme in 2019. Prof. Josiah Ajiboye, Registrar, TRCN, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Abuja. Ajiboye said Nigerian teachers needed to be digitally compliant in order to deliver effectively in their classrooms. “TRCN is poised to continue with the mandatory professional
development programme for Nigerian teachers, especially in the area of
digital literacy programme. “Our teachers have to be digitally compliant and suave; technology
mediated learning is the in thing now and as teachers we cannot remain
redundant; we have to know how to use technology to be able to deliver
in our classrooms. “There are so many strategies that will come in but technology
mediated learning is very critical and that is why digital literacy
learning is very crucial for our teachers,’’ he said. The TRCN boss said that the council conducted the digital training in
17 states in 2018, adding that after the 2019 elections, the council
would complete the training in other states of the federation. Ajiboye said that the council was conducting the training on a tight
budget; however, he was hopeful that the Federal Government would
support in 2019. “Presently, we are starting using the limited resources available in
TRCN but we are looking forward to the Federal Government to support us
massively in 2019 to deliver in the area of digital literacy
training for all Nigerian teachers. “When you look at the education component for  the next level by
President Muhammadu Buhari,  digital literacy training is one of the
core mandates that the President intends  to do.’’ The Professor said the computer based Professional Qualifying
Examination (PQE) for teachers conducted by the council showed the
council’s determination in ensuring teachers were digitally literate. “When we started with the computer based test for the PQE for
teachers, people said many of these teachers did not know how to use a
computer. “But we have since discovered that teachers even in the rural areas
use their phones and even these telephones can be used to teach your
students. “ So the idea is not to use sophisticated things but to use even the
common thing like the handset to give student assignment, how to use it
to chat with your learners. “That is what we have been saying, teachers need to adapt to their
classroom environment and the use of the telephone alone will be able to
help you deliver your lesson better,’’ he said.