Daura (Katsina State) – No fewer than 75 pioneer students of the privately-owned Katman College of Health Technology, Daura, were awarded national and professional diploma in various fields of medical sciences. Dr Reginalo Chimezie, the academic  registrar of the college, made
this known during the maiden convocation  ceremony of the college, in
Daura on Saturday . He said 35 out of the graduands were awarded national diploma in Xray
technology while 33 were awarded professional diploma in Environmental
Health Technology. Seven others graduated with national  diploma in biomedical engineering and technology, respectively . The Registrar aslo revealed that 20 graduands would be inducted into
the National Association of Medical Training Technology as well as the
Association of Biomedical Engineering as certified members. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that those inducted would receive practicing licence. “Those to be inducted have met all the requirements for their enrolment ” Chimezie said. He said the college was established three years ago in order to
develop and increase access to education, especially health education. Chimezie said all the academic courses run by the college were duly
affiliated  with the Rivers State College of Health Technology and
Christfield College of Health technology in Osun state. He added that in recognition of exceptional performance of four of
the graduands, the management of the college has offered them automatic
employment in the school. He said the beneficiaries of the gesture include Ahmed Zainab, Andi Ringson,Charity Anyakorah and Mohammed Sani. In his remarks, the Emir of Daura, Alhaji Farouk Umar, commended the
initiatives of the management of the college for establishing the school
in his domain; the first of its kind in the area. He reiterated the readiness and commitments of traditional
institutions in promoting any good effort aimed at promoting education,
adding that education remains the bedrock of human development. Highlights of the events were cultural displays, presentation of
prize to the overall  best graduating student and award of certificates
of merits to nine community leaders for their contributions toward the
progress of the college. (NAN)