 By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Peoples
Democratic Party has accused the All Progressives Congress of plotting to
unleash mayhem to derail the polls during the governorship election in Taraba
State. The party drop the hint
in a statement signed by the Director, Media & Publicity PDP Presidential
Campaign Organization, Kola Ologbondiyan sent to Sundiata Post. The statement reads in
full: Gentlemen of the press,
we have called you to alert the nation of the atrocious plot by the All
Progressives Congress (APC) to unleash mayhem and get elections stalemated and
postponed in some strategic states of the federation. Of particularly
reference are the activities of APC’s governorship candidate in Taraba state,
Sani Abubakar Danladi, who has now resorted to violence having realized that
there is absolutely no hope for him and his party in the March 2, 2019
governorship election. It is an
incontrovertible fact, known to all, that Taraba state is a long established
stronghold of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and that Governor Darius
Ishaku has the undiluted backing of overwhelming majority of the electorate
across the state, due to his sterling performance in office. Being exasperated and
frustrated by the popularity of the PDP and Gov. Ishaku, the APC, which is
stuck with the most unpopular candidate in the election, is bent at triggering
confusion and bloodletting so as to ambush and truncate the electoral process
in the state, not minding the human and material damage such portends. The PDP has full
information of how the APC is working with enemies of Taraba state to inject
confusion and escalate insecurity in the state so that the governorship
election will be deferred to enable the federal authorities and security
agencies have the opportunity to perpetrate the type of massive rigging that
took place in Ekiti and Osun states governorship elections in 2018 and award
victory to the APC. The APC Governorship
candidate, who is also personally well reputed for acts that contravene free
and fair elections, has been boasting that he has the backing of the Federal
Government and some godfathers in Abuja, who have no stake in the peace, unity
and development of Taraba state in this ignoble project. On Thursday January 17,
2019, the APC, hiding under the guise of campaign unleashed mayhem on Wukari, a
major town in Taraba state. Right from Gindin Dorowa, about 40 kilometers to
Wukari City, thugs recruited by the APC governorship candidate, went on
shooting spree, destroying PDP billboards all the way to Wukari. From the Wukari Yam
market, APC thugs continued shooting their way into the town as if they were on
a mission to conquer the town, while destroying PDP campaign materials
including billboards, posters. The shooting and
unbridling of mayhem continued until they arrived to the city center and close
to the Aku Uka Palace where another political party was also holding a rally,
just as they did in Karim on December 26, 2018 during which they prevented the
PDP senatorial and House of Representatives candidates from campaigning. It is important to note
that pandemonium broke out when, in the course of the shooting in Wukari, a
member of the PDP was killed. At this point a crowd in sympathy to the victim
rushed to the scene; panic took over, a vehicle carrying some APC thugs tried
to beat a retreat and in the process crashed into another vehicle and caught
fire. Other vehicles, which wanted to rush out of the scene got trapped and
were torched from the fire spreading from the already burning vehicle. We invite Nigerians to
note that the grand plan by Sani Danladi and the APC is to cause confusion
during the campaigns since they have no chance of winning the March 2,
election. This is the reason APC
governorship candidate in Taraba state, Sani Danladi has not signed the peace
accord, which was initiated by the Taraba state police command and the INEC to
ensure peaceful campaigns and election. It is instructive to
note that the APC in Taraba state has always been known with political
thuggery, for which even other governorship aspirants in the APC had openly
accused the party. The PDP wants the APC,
its governorship candidate in Taraba state, Sani Danladi and their godfathers
in Abuja, to note that the people of Taraba state will not surrender their
freedom and rights to the APC. Let it be stressed that
Taraba state as a stronghold of the PDP will never, in any way whatsoever,
succumb to the machination of the APC as the people are ready and fully alert
to confront and resist the APC and its candidate, with all the means and energy
necessary and available in the defence of their mandate which they have freely given
to the PDP. The PDP insists that the
governorship election in Taraba and indeed all states of the Federation
scheduled for March 2, 2019 will hold on the fixed date. In the same vein, the
PDP and the people of Taraba state will never accept any result that does not reflect
the reality already expressed by the people. The PDP therefore urges
the National Peace Committee to note the infractions by the APC in Taraba state
and speak out in the interest of peace, particularly given the security
situation in the North East, especially now that Nigerians know who to hold
responsible, should there be a break down of law and order in the state. Finally, the PDP charges
President Buhari and the APC leadership to counsel their governorship candidate
in Taraba state, as well as rein-in their thugs, as there is no way they can
have their way in Taraba state. Any move to undermine the resolve of the
people, might come with very dire consequences. Signed: Kola Ologbondiyan Director, Media &
Publicity PDP Presidential
Campaign Organization