ATIKU’S CLANDESTINE VISIT TO THE U.S – By Festus Keyamo In our press release
issued on Sunday, December 30, 2018, titled “WHEN THE THIEF IS SHOUTING
THIEF”: THE CASE OF ALHAJI ATIKU ABUBAKAR”, we correctly predicted as
follows: “By running for President of Nigeria, Atiku intends to get some
immunity from prosecution. Already he is hoping to obtain a visa to
visit the US, as a guest of the State department, a concession that the
US will grant to a Presidential candidate of Africa’s biggest Nation”. Therefore, we were
not surprised by his visit to the U.S. For us, this visit is really a
non-event considering the issues involved in the forthcoming election.
However, we have bad news for those who think this is a momentous event
for Atiku Abubakar: the visit was nothing but a downright catastrophe
because rather than dispel the fact of indictments hanging over his
head, it further confirms and reinforces those facts for the following
reasons: (1)        The visit
had all the trappings of a fugitive sneaking into America under a
“special diplomatic waiver”. For the candidate of the major opposition
party in Nigeria, it is an absolute disaster that the visit was not
announced ahead of time in Nigeria, with his programmes and itinerary
clearly spelt out, the decent and customary minimum standard of such
visits. This culminated in his close aides issuing conflicting
statements about the visit when he was already on his way there. In
fact, one of them called Paul Ibe actually spoke to the Press that his
principal was nowhere near America! Such was the secrecy of the planning
and execution of that visit. (2)        It is
shameful that a presidential candidate of a major opposition party in
Africa’s most populous country would visit America, and the
international press was kept in the dark: There was NO SINGLE press
conference with the array of international media and correspondents
required for such ‘high-profile’ visit. Atiku knows he has no moral
stamina to withstand the avalanche of hard questions bordering on his
sordid past in America. In fact, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar claims he visited
the Voice of America (VOA) but only did two carefully-packaged
interviews with the Hausa service and the English to Africa program –
platforms that have always been available to him back home. How strange!
In fact, both the Twitter handle (@VOANews) and official website of VOA
did not mention any such visit of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to their
station. For news hounds, you would agree with us that such an
‘important personality’ cannot walk into a news premises without
reporters swooping on him. Whatever he went to do in the premises of the
VOA must have been a carefully-arranged private visit for the
photo-ops, which was intended to scam Nigerians. What more evidence do
we need of a “sneak-in-sneak-out” arrangement than this?. (3)        For a
candidate who claims he wants to “get Nigeria working again” (a
meaningless phrase) to sneak into America without meeting major players
in private businesses is a curiosity and an indication that we are
dealing with a candidate with a dodgy and questionable character. He
claims he went to the U.S Chamber of Commerce, which is supposed to be a
business federation. Again, the Twitter handle (@USChamber) and the
website of the organization make no mention of the visit of such an
‘important personality’ to them. Maybe their famous American lobbyist on
a salary of N9million per month can help them ‘do something’ about this
after this press statement. (4)        It is
also an anomaly that the candidate of the major opposition party in
Nigeria sneaked into America and did not meet large sections of
political leaders of similar ideologies and persuasions towards which he
claims to be inclined. For all his claim to be going to America to meet
“U.S Government officials”, he only succeeded in meeting a certain
“Congressman Smith”, who is the equivalent of a member of the House of
Representatives in Nigeria. You would agree with us that as dignified
and respected as the office of a Member of the House of Representatives
is, an important personality cannot come to Nigeria on an official visit
and claim he has met the “Nigerian government officials” after he pays a
private visit to that Member. For all we know, the Congressman Smith
may just be a private friend of Dr. Bukola Saraki or Alhaji Atiku
Abubakar. That reminds us of Atiku’s famous legislator friend he threw
under the bus, Williams Jefferson, who taught us how to hide laundered
money ( which was meant for Atiku Abubakar) in the deep freezer when the
cops came knocking on his door! In all, it is very
obvious now that the so-called American trip was a desperate trip for
photo-ops. Throughout the trip, Atiku Abubakar looked cagey, frightened
and on edge. We note the close support always provided by Senate
President Bukola Saraki like a comforting guardian angel. The visit and
arrangements smack of things local yahoo yahoo boys do to scam their
victims. It is utterly disgusting and puerile that it has been brought
into a serious political contest. Rather than being
the highpoint of his campaign, the American visit is indeed the lowest
watermark of Atiku Abubakar’s campaign. It was a political and P.R
disaster. The statements he released from there only to the Nigerian
Press back home that he intends to alienate other countries and do
business with the U.S is actually the antithesis to our policy of
non-alignment. For the information
of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and his handlers, Nigerians know that Nigeria
is already working again for everyone and not for a few. As confirmed by
him in a town-hall meeting a few days before his disastrous trip to the
U.S, he said he wants to “get Nigeria working again” only for few of
his friends who he claims he wants to make rich. If he cannot get them
rich now from his private businesses, it is obvious that he is referring
to the use of public funds to make his friends rich. Nigerians should
judge for themselves whether this is the type of President they want. Finally, whoever
advised Atiku Abubakar to undertake that trip to America just destroyed
his entire campaign and exposed him for who he is – a questionable
character who has continued to leave huge questions over his suitability
for the highest office of the land and as such cannot be trusted by the
Nigerian people. Thank you.