By Ibrahim Kado Gombe – Brig.-Gen. Suleiman Kazaure, the Director-General, National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), says bio-metric capturing has reduced incidents of impersonation and registration of ineligible graduates. Kazaure said this in Gombe on Tuesday at the North-East training
workshop on bio-metric clearance of corps members for local governments
inspectors. “This training is intended to give participants the requisite
knowledge on the clearance and monitoring of corps members using
bio-metrics. “It is organised for all Heads of Corps Inspection and Monitoring
branch, ICT Desk Officers, Zonal and Local Government Inspectors of the
North-East states, to ensure a smooth take-off of the process in the
zone.” He urged the participants to contribute meaningfully to the process and shun any act inimical to the success of the innovation. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the theme of the
workshop is “Ensuring Accountability in Corps Members’ Activities Using
Information and Communication Technology (ICT)”. The director-general, who was represented by the Director of  ICT,
Mrs Christy Uba, said that the success of bio-metric capturing for
mobilisation and registration of corps members at the orientation camps
informed the decision to adopt the same process for the monthly
clearance of corps members. He re-affirmed his commitment to the success of the scheme. Mr Christy Uba, Director ICT, who was represented by the Deputy
Director ICT, Mr Dawuda Bamai, said the biometric clearance was designed
for adequate monitoring of corps members. “These include weekly Community Service Development (CDS) at their
various places of primary assignment using fingerprints and personal
data. “It keeps record of absenteeism, checkmates truancy, impersonation
and other vices which tend to undermine the aims and objectives of the
scheme,” she said. Mr David Markson, NYSC Gombe State Coordinator, commended the
management on the development, saying that it would ease the work of
field officers, especially during the monthly clearance.