By Chibuike
Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Group under the auspices of Advocacy for
Integrity and Economic Development (AIED) has called on all members of the
Nigerian Body of Benchers and patriots across the world to stand up against a
new Adolf Hitler that has found home in Nigeria. The group made the call while reacting to the suspension of the
Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen on Saturday in a statement
sent to Sundiata Post. The AIED in a statement signed by its Director of Publicity, Comrade
O’Seun John described the action as a grand illegality and desecration of the
garment of democracy. The statement reads in full: The
Advocacy for Integrity and Economic Development (AIED) has described the
suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen as a grand
illegality, desecration of the garment of democracy and final stage of
President Adolf Buhari Hitler’s Armageddon which must be stopped. In a
statement on Friday in reaction to the suspension of the head of Nigerian
judiciary and signed by its Director of Publicity, Comrade O’Seun John, AIED
stated that the action should be protested not just by every member of the
Nigerian Body of Benchers but all patriots who hold dear the continuous
existence of Nigeria. “The
President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, today, unveiled fully his true
personality after years of dilly dally and pretense as a reformed dictator.
Muhammadu Adolf Buhari Hitler today, showed to the entire world that he is
nothing but a despotic totalitarian who would not mind dragging every
institutions of the Nigerian State down to win a reelection. “Today,
we have seen a man who gets blood rush in illegality, spits on the pages of our
hallow constitution and kicks our sacred laws which forms our identity. “The
Nigerian Judiciary which is the only institution of state left with sanity is
under siege. Our nation has been kicked off the cliff and going on a free fall,
we are in trouble! “The
illegal suspension of Chief Justice of Nigeria is not only alien to every
fibres of our laws but distasteful and an unforgivable violation of the core
spirit and principle of separation of power. “We
hereby call on all members of the Nigerian Body of Benchers and patriots across
the world to stand up against a new Adolf Hitler that has found home in
Nigeria. We call on every world leaders to stand up for the Nigerian people at this
moment of tribulation and help end this reign of absurdity,” the statement
read. Signed
Comrade O’Seun John
Director of Publicity