By Salisu Sani-Idris Abuja – Malam Is’haq Kawu, Director-General, National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), has warned broadcasters against airing slanderous political campaigns to guard against promoting hate speeches and overheating the polity. Kawu gave the warning on Wednesday while briefing newsmen on the
preparations for 2019 general elections and an update on Digital Switch
Over, at the NBC headquarters in Abuja. He said that the commission had monitored some defamatory campaigns
by some political parties, adding that recent times live political
campaigns by two major parties had been characterised by indecent
languages. Kawu urged broadcasters to be responsive by reporting political
broadcast in respectable language and insist that political parties
abide by the provisions of the Broadcasting Code to broadcast their
messages. “With the commencement of electioneering campaign for the 2019
general elections on Sept. 18, 2019, based on INEC guidelines, the
national stations have become agog with sponsored libel by political
parties, particularly the two main parties; PDP and APC. “We have observed again through monitoring of stations that,
politicians have refused to learn from mistakes of the past in spite of
efforts by NBC to sensitise them and remind them of their
responsibilities. “We monitor libel in campaign of parties and in recent times, live
political campaigns of the two parties have been characterised with
indecent and abusive languages, name calling, allegations and use of
hate speech.’’ Kawu said that live coverage of political activities should be
truthful, decent, fair and balanced, stressing that, “we are not getting
that.` ‘‘We told our licencees that it is very good to make a lot of money during this period. “But you will be liable if you allow your medium to be used to
broadcast materials that are contrary to the Nigeria Broadcasting Code. Kawu, who disclosed that sanction letters had been written to
broadcasting stations found to have violated the provision of the Code
Political broadcast, called on them to be professional, especially on
days of elections. The NBC boss said all political jungles must stop, 24 hours before
elections and cautioned stations against announcing results of elections
before the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The director-general said that the commission would distribute 5,000
Set Top Boxes to Military formations, Police Stations, Hospitals, NSCDC,
36 state Houses of Assembly and traditional rulers across the country. According to him, NBC is targeting 16 million households for the
digital switch over programme across the country in the next 15 months.
(NAN)