Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Nigerian
Air Force’s Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation Lafiya Dole has raided and
destroyed a Boko Haram’s logistics base in Sambisa forest, Borno state. NAF Director of Public
Relations and Information, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, said on Tuesday in
Abuja that the operation was carried out on Monday. The operation was
carried out after series of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR)
missions revealed a resurgence of human and vehicular activities at the
logistics base, which had hitherto been abandoned. ” Accordingly, the ATF
scrambled two Nigerian Air Force (NAF) Alpha Jet aircraft to attack the
location. ” Overhead the target
area, several structures and vehicles were seen camouflaged under the thick
vegetation of the Forest, with significant human activity observed within the
area. “The attack aircraft
recorded direct hits on the target area resulting in the destruction of several
structures and neutralisation of some BHTs,” he said. Daramola added that the
terrorists, who survived the bomb strikes, were seen fleeing the area. The spokesman said the
criminals were mopped-up in follow-on attacks. Also troops of Operation
Egwu Eke III, also known as Operation Python Dance 3, have rescued two kidnap
victims around Owerrinta general area of Abia. Col. Sagir Musa, Deputy
Director Public Relations of 82 Division of the Nigerian Army, made this known
in a statement in Enugu on Tuesday. The statement was
entitled; “Update on Exercise Egwu Eke III in South-East Geo-Political Zone
between Jan. 20 and Jan. 27.” Musa said that based on a distress call at about
5 p.m. on Jan. 22 that alerted troops of a kidnap incident at Ubakala Junction
along Owerrinta general area of Abia, troops of Sector 2, Sub-sector Charlie
successfully cordoned and searched the area. “Consequently, the
kidnappers abandoned their victims – Mrs Loveth Nonye Ofoegbu and Mr Kaodi
Onuaha. “The rescued persons have been handed over to
the Police Command in Abia for further actions,’’ he said. He also said that
following credible information, troops of Sector 2, Sub-sector Alfa, at about
2:30 a.m. on Jan. 24 raided a hideout of suspected armed robbers in Ahaba
Imenyi community of Isuikwuato Local Government Area of Abia. The army spokesman said that a suspect, Mr Chidiebere Orji, was arrested while others were at large. (Vanguard).