By Wandoo Sombo Abuja – The Federal High Court, Abuja, on Friday affirmed Mr Uche Ogah as the All Progressives Congress(APC)  governorship candidate in Abia for the  March 2 elections . Justice Anwuli Chikere made the declaration in his judgment on  a
suit filed by Ogah challenging the substitution of his name with  that
of Mr Ikechi Emenike by the Abia chapter of the party. The court held that it was the National Executive Committee (NEC) of
the party that could conduct primaries to elect candidates for elections
and not the state chapter. It further held that it was the primaries conducted by the party’s 
NEC  on Oct. 2, 2018, where Ogah emerged winner that was constitutional
and not the Abia chapter’s primaries that produced Emenike on Sept. 30,
2018. Ogah had gone to court to challenge the nomination of Emenike by the
state chapter of the party  as the Abia governorship  candidate for the
election. He had raised three questions for the court to determine, saying that
if the answers to the questions were in the negative, the court should
grant him the following reliefs: “A declaration that the APC having complied with all the relevant
laws and its rules in nominating him as its Abia gubernatorial candidate
for the 2019 general elections, the defendants nor any other person
cannot remove, substitute or change his name unless he dies, resigns his
candidature or is removed or substituted by a court of competent
jurisdiction. “A declaration that the purported gubernatorial primary election
conducted by the Abia Chapter of the APC, nominating Emenike as
candidate of the APC for the 2019 general election is unconstitutional,
null and void and of no effect whatsoever. “An order of injunction restraining Emenike from parading himself as
the Abia State gubernatorial candidate of APC for the 2019 General
Elections, having been nominated by the Abia Chapter of the APC instead
of the National Executive Committee of the APC.” The court granted all the reliefs sought by Ogah. Emenike, APC and the Independent National Electoral Commission,
(INEC) were named as first, second and third defendants respectively.
(NAN)