By Emmanuel Mogbede Abuja – Diaspora volunteer group for President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election says the achievements of the present administration are under reported. Mr Ade Omole, Convener of the group and All Progressives Congress
Party (APC) United Kingdom, made the assertion on Saturday in Abuja. Omole stated this when he led some members of the group to Maitama
Fruit Market under the group`s market-to-market initiative aimed at
sensitising traders on the administration’s achievements in the last
three and half years. He  said that the achievements of the President Buhari-led
administration in all sectors were enormous but had not been given
adequate publicity. This, he said, was the reason the PMB UK Volunteer Group was
initiated to embark on market to market campaigns to sensitise traders
and especially those at the grassroots on the achievements of the Buhari
administration He said beyond sensitising the people on the achievements of the APC
Buhari-led administration, the market visits would enable traders make
informed decision on the best candidate to vote for in the coming
election. Omole, however, said that it was necessary for Nigerians to be armed
with their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) ahead of the elections,
stressing that they could do nothing without it. “Get your PVCs to enable you to vote for the right candidate who is
Buhari, be steadfast, because we cannot be done until we vote to renew
the president`s mandate on Feb. 16, “ he said. On his finding from interacting with the people at the market, Omole
said the people were very happy with the Buhari administration, and had
promised to vote for him to renew his mandate. Speaking on the electioneering campaigns currently going on by
political parties, Omole said it was unfortunate that while the APC had
based its campaigns on issues, opposition parties, especially the
Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had been engaging in campaign of
blackmail. “As for the APC being a progressive party, it is always  issue-based,
we are not into head breaking or thuggery, ours had been issue based
campaigns, but for the opposition, it is quite difficult to say that. “It has been one fake news after the other coming from the opposition
parties, especially the PDP and they have been going up and down
peddling falsehood, this is not good for the polity,“ omole said. He described the recent visit of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, former Vice 
President and the PDP`s presidential candidate to US for the coming
election as a botched trip which cost the party so much money. He added Nigerians would not be fooled by the antics of the PDP and
by such trip which he said was meant to score a cheap political point
ahead of the presidential election. Omole, however, added that from the reception President Buhari had
received in states visited so far during his campaigns, it was obvious
that Nigerians would renew his mandate in the coming election by voting
for him. He tasked Nigerians who might yet be undecided, to come out enmass to
vote for Buhari on the election day to renew his mandate for a second
term. This, he said, was critical to enable him consolidate on his achievements and to take the country to the next level. “I strongly believe that the mandate of Buhari will definitely be
renewed by Nigerians on Feb. 16 and that is why we are here, sensitising
the people on his achievements and where the government is taking the
country to, “ he said. Omole said the group was working with the APC national leadership and
other support groups within the party to ensure that Buhari`s mandate
was renewed. Also speaking, Muhammad Ibrahim, a member of the group, said traders
in the market were appreciative of the visit which they said showed that
the APC leadership acknowledged their support for the Buhari
administration. Ibrahim said the group’s market to market campaign train had besides
visiting major markets within the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), had
taken the campaign for the re-election of President Buhari to Kogi,
Kaduna, Niger and Nasarawa states He added that the group had in the markets visited, engaged traders
on the achievements of the Buhari administration and why he should be
re-elected for a second term, saying that the traders had always been
receptive.(NAN)