Amsterdam – The trade war between Washington and Beijing is forcing Dutch health technology company Philips to move “hundreds of millions” of euros worth of production from the United States to China, and vice versa, to avoid punitive tariffs. ““This is not peanuts”, Chief Executive Frans van Houten told reporters on Tuesday. “These are serious changes to our supply chains,” he said, adding the switches would take place in the first half of 2019. Philips, whose healthcare products range from high-tech toothbrushes
to medical imaging systems, stuck to an earlier prediction that
increased trade tariffs would cut around 60 million euros ($69 million)
from core profits this year. But the effects of the trade war go beyond tariffs, the CEO said, as
it is hitting consumer confidence in China, slowing demand for consumer
healthcare products in the world’s second-largest economy. Philips’ sales in China will continue to grow in 2019, however, Van
Houten said, as strong demand for hospital equipment will outweigh the
weakness of the consumer market. Overall, Philips held on to its target for total comparable sales growth of 4 to 6 per cent per year until 2020. Strong demand for hospital equipment in China, Latin America and
Europe helped Philips beat analysts’ forecasts in the last quarter of
2018, as comparable sales rose 5 per cent and core profit (adjusted
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization) increased
10 per cent to 971 million euros. Together with a 6 per cent dividend hike and a new 1.5 billion euros
share buyback plan, this lifted Philips shares 1.8 per cent to 32.89
euros at 0930 GMT. “On headline numbers, Philips reported a decent update”, ING analyst Marc Hesselink wrote in a note. “Underlying, the quality of the beat was lower (as) Connected Care
& Healthcare Informatics was, like previous quarters, well below
expectations.” Rival Siemens Healthineers said on Tuesday it would take steps to
raise profitability at its diagnostics unit after lengthy installation
times for its new Atellica blood and urine testing machines hit profit
at the division. Philips reported comparable sales growth of 3 to 5 per cent for its
two largest businesses, which make hospital equipment and personal
healthcare products. Sales of its connected care division, which
specializes in remote patient monitoring, were flat. Philips expects rising life expectancy and associated chronic
diseases to lead to growing demand for devices that allow patients to
stay at home, while their data is monitored. But Van Houten in November said demand for such products would remain modest in 2019.