By Kazeem Akande  Lagos   –        The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has urged commercial drivers who engaged in persistent journey during the Yuletide to always imbibe safety culture even after the festive period. Mr John Meheux, the Assistant Corps Marshal, in charge of Zone 2, comprising both Ogun and Lagos states made the appeal in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). Meheux, however, said that though there was progress among the motorists in terms of compliance during Yuletide, adding that human lives should not be taken with levity as it was so valuable and precious in the eyes of the creator. He said that many lives were being lost on daily basis on the highways as a result of crashes which could be averted by the drivers if they imbibed the road safety culture. “FRSC has identified certain negative human elements that are road crash in tendencies such as speeding, over confidence, impatience, use of phone while driving, drink driving and dangerous overtaking. “Information from crash investigations at our disposal have indicated that these negative human factors have continued to dominate the habits of most road users. “As such, they constitute the most predominant cause of fatal road crashes, in fact, such mentioned human factors have being found to be responsible for a high per cent of the causes of crashes,” he said. According to him, the corps have paid close attention to Lagos-Ibadan, Shagamu-Ijebu-Ode and other corridors, especially where road constructions is ongoing. NAN reports that Mr Hyginus Omeje, the FRSC Lagos State Sector Commander, had said the corps had started enlightenment and sensitisation on distracted driving for motorists, especially commercial drivers at various motor parks in Lagos. According to him, the command recently observed with utmost dismay the hazardous overloading pattern of commercial fleet operators, such that even the aisle of the buses are obstructed up to the door with luggage. He said that in the event of an emergency, escape became difficult in such situations. “We have sent a notification of clampdown to all the fleet operators in Lagos intimating them of a clamp down, which commences soon. “And the command has a strategic initiative introduced a special ember month advocacy campaign targeted at passenger carrying fleet operators. “We focus more on overloading, use of phone while driving, passenger manifest, driving under influence, driver’s licence
violation and excessive speed and other related offenses. “The advocacy started at 6.30 a.m and ended at 7.30 p.m, where we speak about danger of overloading, driving under influence of drugs and alcohol, dangerous overtaking, importance of seat belt and the role of passengers in ensuring safe driving and safe arrival