Enugu, – The Anambra Government has disassociated itself from a purported communiqué by Ohaneze Ndigbo endorsing the candidacy of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar for the Feb. 16 presidential election. Abubakar is the People’s Democratic Party (PDP)’s presidential candidate in the February 16 election. Prof. Solo Chukwulobelu, the Secretary to Anambra Government (SSG),
made the disclosure in a statement made available to newsmen in Enugu. Chukwulobelu declared that the contents of the communiqué did not reflect the Anambra Government’s position. It will be recalled that an arm of the Ohaneze Ndigbo ‘Ime Obi’
arising from a meeting on Thursday in Enugu declared support for
Abubakar. Ime Obi is like a rapid response arm of the Ohaneze Ndigbo,
comprising delegations from the seven states that make up the
organisation including state governors. However, Chukwulobelu expressed dismay that the apex Igbo
socio-cultural organisation had decided to be partisan, in spite of the
fact that members of the organisation belong to different political
parties. Chukwulobelu said: “We have read bits of the communiqué purportedly
issued by the Ohaneze leadership. We regret that they do not reflect the
position of the people and Government of Anambra State. “The position of the Anambra State Government is that Ohaneze should
remain a united umbrella for all Ndigbo, and should not take sides with
any party. “There are major leaders in all political parties, including the
three major ones in Nigeria, namely, All Progressives Grand Alliance
(APGA), All Progressives Congress ( APC) and PDP. “It is deeply regrettable that the Ohaneze leadership has chosen to
go down a divisive trajectory capable of setting back Igbo unity for
several years,” he said. The SSG said that Gov. Willie Obiano had sent a delegation to attend the Ime Obi meeting summoned by the organisation in Enugu. “Our delegation arrived early enough to participate in the meeting of Ime Obi scheduled to start at 7 p.m. on Thursday. “We were surprised to learn that the meeting had been held earlier and lasted for a mere 30 minutes. “The representative of the Ebonyi State Government, Dr Eric Kelechi
Igwe, who arrived at the venue before the time the meeting was scheduled
to start was also surprised that it had already taken place. “The same goes for others like the Minister of Science and
Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, and the Minister of Labour and Employment,
Dr Chris Ngige,” he said. Chukwulobelu said that they were shocked that the meeting was even
slated for a day President Muhammadu Buhari was campaigning in Anambra
and Enugu States. He said that Buhari’s visit to Anambra was to honour Dr Nnamdi
Azikiwe, First Republic President of Nigeria, and the leadership of
Ohaneze Ndigbo was expected to participate actively. “We were, indeed, surprised that the Ime Obi meeting could hold today (on Thursday) of all days. ‘‘We had expected Ohaneze leaders to participate actively in the
inauguration of the Zik Mausoleum, Onitsha, Anambra State,” he said. Chukwulobelu said that the Mausoleum which had been under
construction for the past 23 years was completed by the Buhari’s
Administration which was a big honour to Azikiwe, an Igbo man.