By Abiodun Lawal Owode – The People of Owode-Yewa in Yewa South Local Government Area of Ogun, have urged the Federal Government to intervene over alleged nefarious activities of some Customs officers in the area. Leaders and youths in the community
are furious over alleged recent killings of their people by officers of
the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). The Olu of Owode-Yewa, Oba Mathew
Akindele, at a news conference on Friday in Owode-Yewa town hall,
condemned the action of the Customs men. He explained that innocent people
were killed during the incident which happened on Monday when Customs
men started shooting sporadically. “What happened on Monday was so
unfortunate. It was a sad day in Owode-Yewa. We are not saying that
Customs should not do their job but lives must not be wasted. “We learnt that the Customs officers
invaded a shop along Elekute in Owode-Yewa where bags of rice were
stored and they were trying to evacuate them. “An action which the shop owners and
some youths objected to, leading to chaos between the shop owners and
the Customs officers. The Customs officers started shooting
sporadically, not in the bush but within the town which led to five of
my people being killed,’’ he said. The monarch listed the names of the
deceased as: Jamiu Bello 32, Taiwo Oni 48, Taiwo Adeleye 39, Serifat
Ogunsina 34 and Olabode Sunday 41. He urged the Federal Government to
take a drastic action by ensuring that the perpetrators of the act were
brought to book, saying that protection of lives and property was
non-negotiable. Also speaking, the Akinrogun of
Owode-Yewa, Alhaji Yusuf Akanbi, said that the attitude of the Customs
Service in the area was becoming worrisome, demanding that the officers
responsible for the dastardly act be punished. “The goods in question passed
through seven communities before entering Owode, Why were they not
arrested at the border before getting to Owode community, ‘’ he
questioned . Those present at the conference
included the Chief Imam of Owode -Yewa, Imam Maroof Olohunyeagbami, a
representatives of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Pastor
Adeyemi Dele and the Oodua People’s Congress (OPC). Mrs Bolanle Adeniji, the mother of
Jamiu, one of the deceased, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that
his son had always been the bread winner of the family since the demise
of her husband. Adeniji noted that her son had never
engaged in smuggling activities, saying that he was only passing by
when he was hit by a stray bullet from the men of the NCS. Ajara Bello, Jamiu’s wife, speaking
amidst tears told NAN that they got married five years ago and were
blessed with a three-year old boy. The NCS Public Relations Officer in
Ogun, Abdullahi Maiwada, in a statement on Tuesday, said that the
incident between the NCS personnel and suspected smugglers in Owode
-Yewa area of the state was initiated by the suspected hoodlums. “At about 12 p.m. on Monday, Jan.
21, some smugglers and their accomplices ganged up against an
Anti-smuggling Team from discharging its legitimate functions at Owode
Yewa community. “The officers were on an operation
to save the Nigerian economy from the mayhem of smugglers who stocked a
place of worship and some houses nearby with rice suspected to have been
smuggled into Nigeria. “The team faced stiff resistance
from some armed criminals who inflicted serious injuries on two officers
and minor injuries on other members of the team, and further destroyed
official patrol vehicles. “The encounter led to exchange of
fire between Officers and smugglers with their accomplices. For peace to
reign, the team resorted to tactical withdrawal. “However, the hoodlums took laws
into their hands by barricading the main road leading to Idiroko,
scouting for Customs officers to attack. “They also battled with law enforcement agencies to gain access to Customs formations for further confrontation,’’ Maiwada said. He commended the patriotic roles of
sister agencies and law abiding citizens in assisting the Command to
achieve its lawful duty of revenue collection and curbing smuggling in
the interest of the country. “We wish to categorically state that we will continue the anti-smuggling crusade against all odds,’’ Maiwada said.