By Polycarp Auta  Jos –   Sen. Jeremiah Useni, the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in Plateau, says he will run an all-inclusive government if elected in the forthcoming general elections. Useni, who said this at the party’s presidential campaign rally on Saturday in Jos, promised to carry everybody along in governing the state. “I shall run an all-inclusive government; I will not work alone. I will carry everybody along,” he said. The retired army General and former FCT minister promised to end the killings in the state, adding that he would ensure the safety of lives and properties of all Plateau residents. He also promised to tackle poverty, hunger and squalor in the state through policies and programmes that would address indolence among the youths. “I will not allow people to be killed every day. All of us will work together to secure our lives and properties. “There will be food on the table of everybody and we will develop a homegrown mechanism that will naturally end poverty,” he said. Useni also promised to pay attention to education, noting that only a society with informed citizens could attain meaningful development. Speaking at the event, Sen. Jonah Jang, the immediate past governor of the state, urged residents of the state to vote PDP at all levels, so as to move Nigeria forward. According to him, the APC-led regime has been a major setback for Nigeria. “The APC has inflicted the people with hunger and poverty. We cannot continue like this,” he said. In his address, Chief Damishi Sango, PDP chairman in the state, promised to deliver one million votes to the PDP in the state. He called on residents of the state to vote the party at all levels, pledging that it would deliver dividends of democracy to the people. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that Rep Edward Pwajok (APC/Jos South/Jos East), and Mr Patience Davou, a Senior Special Assistant on media to Governor Simon Lalong, and their supporters, who recently defected from the APC to the PDP, were formally received at the event. (NAN)