By Anita Eboigbe Abuja – From traditional attire to modernised African-inspired dashikis and dresses, the various print designs and range of colours of Nigerian and African textiles have an influence on the fashion industry, says Dennis Osadede, ace fashion designer. Osadebe, is arguably the first Nigerian to own a fashion brand, `D
and D Clothing’ in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE) while his brand is
the predominant means through which Africans and non-Africans in UAE
can access Nigerian fashion pieces. Osadebe speaks further in this interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) Below are extracts: As a Nigerian designer, how would you describe the influence of Nigerian fashion in global fashion? Going back to history, African print textiles, which were actually
inspired by batik or wax-resist cloth from Indonesia, have been used to
dress the people of Central and West Africa from the 1800s to present
day. From traditional attire to modernised African-inspired dashikis and
dresses, the various print designs and range of colours of African
textiles have had influence on the fashion industry.
It is amazing to watch this influence as the world seems to have
suddenly realised the beauty of African fashion. It is now a strong part
of global pop culture and provides more opportunities for African
designers to shine internationally. Why did you decide to pursue fashion and design? The fashion industry had always been my passion. I love fashion and
that is the main reason, among many businesses, I chose D and D
Clothing. After a successful outing in Europe and US, D and D Clothing
became popular and recognised all over the world. I then decided to set
up my own show rooms across the world and that was how we opened the
Dubai office. What led you to launch in Dubai?
Dubai is the most suitable place for luxury tailoring services. I
recognised the potentials of introducing African fashion to the world
and now here we are. I chose to create an African fashion brand in
United Arab Emirates because no one had done it before. I wanted to use
the opportunity to reach my brothers and sisters in the world. Remember
that Dubai is a tourism hub for business. D and D clothing showcase at a recent fashion show (Source:IG) Your brand is big on African pieces, how much thought and consciousness would you say are put into this? Africans are bold especially Nigerians and I love to represent the
homeland in every piece I make; however, it takes a lot of thinking and
creative digging to make a master-piece. I simply tell myself that
nothing good comes easy. The price of success is hard work, dedication
to the job at hand and determination that whether one wins or loses the
best strategy has to be applied on the task at hand. So, I put 100 per
cent of my time in designing the business and because I see the future
in this, I want people around the world to know about African fashion. How are African prints received in Dubai which is the world’s biggest emerging fashion market? The reception has been amazing and seeing taste we are pioneering it,
I can say that D and D is more than a clothing line. It is a movement
that gives each person the opportunity to express oneself. My clients in
Dubai were very bored of the regular before we launched it; that is why
they feel so special wearing custom-made clothes with creative African
touch. Working in Dubai and in the international fashion market, I
quickly realised the need to translate our fashion language to the
worldwide market to show Nigerian inspired print fabrics, colors
combination and modern fashion trends. Dubai is only the beginning, you
will hear about us in Milan, London, New York this year. How would you describe the growth of African fashion globally?
African fashion is growing and I can say it’s ready for the world. You
can see an African touch in recent collections of Gucci or Louis
Vuitton. Just look at all these impressionable fashion houses and you
will see that African elements such as prints are present. Yearly, more
and more international runway shows are happening in on the continent
and African designers are becoming world famous number one on the chart.
In fact, their businesses are shining outside Africa and I feel proud
that African fashion has such big influence on world’s fashion trends. What are the factors responsible for this growth?
First, African fashion is beautiful. You cannot take this away.
Secondly, the thought and process that is put into it makes it a project
close to the heart. A lot of people want to connect with something
esoteric and African fashion has so much soul in it. Also, the industrial and cultural revolution from Africa is
positively affecting the fashion industry. With competitive labour
costs, Africa has the potential to claim a much greater share of the
world’s apparel and textile manufacturing output but to achieve this,
significant international investment is needed to build the industrial
infrastructure required to compete with the likes of Asia. Now, we can
see that South African fashion is growing and heavily influenced by
Nigeria. Kenya is catching up fast too. Already, I can see the massive
growth of African industries in the nearest future. What new projects are you embarking on this season?
As I already mentioned, 2019 is a new era for us.  The team and I are so
excited to implement all our plans and to showcase our creativity to
the world. We want the world to hear us and we are working to put
together our own fashion shows and houses. After Dubai, Kenya is our
next stop and all the necessary documentation for our new office in
Kenya has been done. I am very keen on the importance of making African
fashion more visible in the international fashion market. I will always
support and develop my native fashion culture and I can assure you that
the new season for D and D will be all shades awesome. D and D clothing showcase at a recent fashion show (Source: IG) What challenges have you faced as an African designer in the international market and how are you combating them? I love challenges and was ready to start from the beginning in a new
country although I knew it was going to be hard. When we started, nobody
knew our brand. But you have to keep pushing business to each African
person; now we are proud of our growth. At least, 50 African customers
visit our showroom regularly and the numbers keep growing. We also have
Europeans and Arabs who love our products and are intrigued by the
beauty of African fashion. We have the same uniqueness on our newly
launched online store. We are so proud to be shipping our clothes all
around the world. Even the last custom-made wedding dress was shipped to
Australia. Our brand has grown in terms of scale, working now all over
the world with agents and distributors and we are trying to grow with
the addition of new categories like accessories for instance. In all
these, I have learned over time that it is really important to stay true
to our values and keep the same hand writing in every business. What are the lessons for the Nigerian fashion industry?
Africa is home to seven of the fastest growing economies in the world
and about 70 per cent of the continent’s populations live in countries
that have experienced average growth in excess of four percent over the
past decade. Although the statistics are interesting, the African
fashion industry currently contributes only a small fraction. So, to
grow to the international level, Nigerian fashion designers should bring
their styles abroad and actively search for international
representatives to tell the African story. We should always dream big
and work hard to make our plans real. That is the only way to make your
brand popular and successful.