By Martins Abochol Tuongo – Gov. Mohammed Bindow of Adamawa on Wednesday promised to build all state government owned roads linking Tuongo Local Government with other parts of the state, if reelected. Bindow who made the declaration at the launching of Gov. Bindow
Campaign for 2019 in Tuongo, said that he would also complete the
ongoing electrical installation to connect the area to the national
grid. “I will launch my new project execution in Tuongo upon my return to
office. I will ensure the completion of the ongoing Mayo Belwa-Tuogo
road rehabilitation project awarded by the Federal Government. “This zone had been neglected for so long especially in the area of
physical infrastructure. I want to assure you that the APC will provide
massive infrastructural projects in the area,’’ he said. While commending the people for voting the party in the last general
elections, Bindow urged them to repeat the feat by voting all APC
candidates in the coming elections. Earlier, Mr Felix Tangwami, Director General, Gov. Bindow Campaign
Organisation, called on the people of Tuongo to vote for the party to
address major development challenges facing the area. Tangwami said that the governor could not do all things, and gave the
assurance that he would build roads, schools and hospitals as well as
create jobs and provide others basic needs of the people. In his remarks, Alhaji Ibrahim Bilal, the state Chairman of APC, said
that the commencement of the governorship campaign in Tuongo was a mark
of honour to the people of the area. Bilal, who received 175 PDP members who decamped to APC, urged the
people to vote in the party for the consolidation of the good works the
administration was carrying out in the area. Alhaji Usman Birinyi, APC Chairman in Tuongo Local Government Area,
appealed to the governor to construct roads linking various communities
within the area. Birinyi assured the governor of massive votes for him during the governorship election. There was massive turnout of party supporters during the rally while
the governor earlier visited the palace of the District Head of Tuongo,
Alhaji Mohammed Jaimu. He solicited his prayers for the peaceful conduct of the general elections and support for his reelection