Ado Ekiti – The  Ekiti Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, says the state will henceforth arrest parents of pupils found hawking during school hours. The governor, through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Olayinka Oyebode, made this known on Sunday in Ado Ekiti. The governor gave the warning while meeting with stakeholders in the education sector at the weekend. The governor asked parents to take advantage of the free education
policy of his administration to reduce the number of out-of-school
children. Fayemi said all hands must be on deck to checkmate the declining
school enrolment in the state regarded as ‘Fountain of Knowledge’. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that Fayemi had, shortly
after his inauguration in October 2018, declared free education from
primary to senior secondary schools in the state. He also abolished all education levies and the education tax introduced by the immediate past administration in the state. At the meeting, Fayemi said that many parents were yet to take full
advantage of the free and qualitative education policy of the
administration. He noted that part of the responsibilities of government was to
ensure that children and youth who were the future of the nation, were
properly groomed through qualitative education that would prepare them
for the future. The governor said the current school enrolment rate of 55 per cent as
against 96 per cent recorded in 2014 was unacceptable to his
government, adding that something must be done urgently to reverse the
ugly trend. He said that the state government had started compiling records of
retired teachers with a view to determining available vacancies in the
teaching service and how to fill them. Fayemi also added that the present  administration would soon
commence recruitment of competent and qualified teachers who would help
to raise the standard of education in the state. He also disclosed that the administration had commenced the process
of returning mission schools to their original owners, but stressed that
government would continue to monitor them to ensure that the schools do
not decline in standards.