HARARE – Zimbabwe was under an internet blackout on Friday after authorities extended a communications ban to cover emails, while the United Nations urged an end to a security crackdown on civilians triggered by days of deadly protests. A Zimbabwean man speaks on his phone outside a branch of mobile service provider Econet Wireless in central Harare, June 6, 2014. REUTERS/Philimon Bulawayo/File Photo The
government has said three people died during demonstrations that broke
out on Monday after President Emmerson Mnangagwa raised fuel prices by
150 percent. Lawyers and activists say the toll was much higher and that
security forces used violence and carried out mass arrests to quell the
unrest. In Geneva, The U.N. human rights office called on the
government to stop the crackdown and denounced allegations of
“generalised intimidation and harassment” of protesters. As life
returned to a semblance of normality in Harare, civilians ventured
outside to stock up on food and other supplies while police continued to
patrol the streets. Jacob Mafume, spokesman for the main
Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) opposition party, said he feared
the web blackout was a prelude to more violence. “The total
shutdown of the internet is simply to enable crimes against humanity,”
he told Reuters. “The world must quickly step in to remove this blanket
of darkness that has been put on the country.” Authorities have
yet to respond to the allegations of a crackdown, but many Zimbabweans
believe Mnangagwa is falling back on the tactics of his predecessor
Robert Mugabe by using intimidation to crush dissent. The
president has also failed to make good on pre-election pledges to
kick-start the ailing economy – beset by high inflation and a currency
shortage, and the trigger for this week’s protests. Referring to
allegations of night-time door-to-door searches against demonstrators
and beatings by police, U.N. human rights spokeswoman Ravina Shamdasani
said hospital medics had treated more than 60 people for gunshot wounds. “This is not way to react to the expression of economic grievances by the population,” she said. One
Harare schoolteacher waiting in a fuel station queue said filling his
petrol tank twice a month would now cost him $528 rather than $230. “I
will have to probably cut on some other things or simply decide not to
drive to work,” Gilbert Kepekepe told Reuters. [L8N1ZH4S4] Activist group Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights said it was representing more than 130 people arrested following the protests. They
include activist pastor Evan Mawarire, who appeared in court on Friday
for magistrates to rule if he has a case to answer on charges of
subverting the government. Mawarire, who rose to prominence as a
critic of Mugabe and led a national protest in 2016, was tried and
acquitted on similar charges in 2017. He faces up to 20 years in jail if
convicted. Mawarire was arrested on Wednesday after encouraging Zimbabweans in social media posts to heed a strike call from unions. Government
officials were not immediately available for comment on the internet
blackout, which critics say is an attempt to prevent images of
heavy-handedness from being broadcast around the world. Authorities partly cut off internet access on Tuesday, while Friday’s fuller shutdown also affected emails. Leading mobile operator Econet Wireless said the government had ordered it to shut down services. “We
were served with another directive for total shutdown of the internet
until further notice,” it said in a statement. “Our lawyers advised that
we are required to comply (pending a court ruling).” Due to the shutdown, Harare banks were providing only partial services and no cash machines were working, a Reuters witness said, while long queues formed at petrol stations and shops. (Reuters)