By Jacinta Nwachukwu Abuja – Oracle Nigeria, has bestowed Technology Innovation Leadership Award on the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC), in recognition of its  effort to create a sustainable system in data collection. Mr Adebayo Sanni, the Managing Director, Oracle Nigeria, presented
the award to Mr Aliyu Aziz, the Director-General NIMC in Abuja. Sanni commended the entire management of NIMC for giant strides in service delivery. “NIMC deserved the award for applying innovative technology in line
with world’s best practices in her quest to achieve sustainable
result’’. Sanni, noted that NIMC has made the country to have a reliable
National Identity Management System that “transforms the way identity is
collected, established, authenticated and asserted using advanced
biometric technologies.’’ According to him, Oracle considers NIMC an extremely strategic
partner and is committed to maintaining a strategic partnership with the
commission. “looking at the potentials of Digital Identity Management and where
NIMC is heading to, we think sustainable partnership with the commission
will help NIMC achieve its mandate. “And create a dependable identity database, as fast as possible,” he said. Aziz appreciated the management of Oracle Nigeria for the recognition
and promised that the commission would not relent in its effort to
create a reliable database. He said that creating a reliable database will better equip the
government at all levels to identify the needs of Nigerian citizens and
legal residents for better service delivery. “A reliable database will help secure the nation’s economy, deliver
the Federal Government’s development agenda and provide for key
government services, such as social safety, security, agriculture and
financial inclusion,’’ Aziz said. He noted that NIMC had provided standard regulations that would
enable uniformity in the demographic and biometric information to be
collected, stored, managed and utilised in specific cases. Aziz called on Oracle Nigeria to give NIMC its maximum support,
especially with the attendant increase in enrolment into the National
Identity Database.