…Calls for More Foreign
Supports as Election Approaches Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank has slammed President Buhari over his comment on meddling with nigerian matters, saying it would not have been possible for him to become president without the intervention of countries like United Kingdom, United Nations and United Stated of America (USA) among others countries. Timi Frank, however,
called on the international community to ignore the Nigerian presidency and the
leaders of the ruling APC, who have threatened both the US and the UK among
others, to do everything possible to encourage and help to sustain democracy in
Nigeria. In a statement signed
Wednesday in Abuja, Frank described a statement credited to President Muhammadu
Buhari, where he warned the UK, USA and other countries against interference in
the affairs of Nigeria as a “message from table of an ingrate.” According to Frank, Buhari wouldn’t have
become president today if not for the intervention of international community
in 2015 who prevailed on the then government of Goodluck Jonathan to allow free
and fair election. He said it is surprising
that Buhari who praised the efforts of UK, US and others prior to his emergence
in 2015 is now asking the same international community to keep quite in the
face of his undemocratic and dictatorial tendencies in the country. “Before 2015, Buhari did
not tell those countries to back up when he was enjoying their support. When he
was sick and badly needed treatment, he didn’t threaten them. When the country
needed ammunition to fight Boko Haram, their intervention were important, when
Buhari needed the return of Abacha loot, he went about begging but for selfish
reason, he doesn’t want a foreign intervention now. Of course, the tyrannical
tendency in the former dictator wouldn’t allow democratic societies’
influence.” Frank said it will be
difficult for a “dictator like president Buhari, who has lost popularity for
re-election and unfortunately surrounded himself with so many arrogant APC
leaders to allow rule of law reign because rigging the coming election is
paramount to them. “During Buhari military
rule in the ’80s, Nigeria became a pariah nation. Nigerian masses suffered
unnecessary hardships caused by Buhari and his junta. The Western world imposed
bans because of his dictatorship. It took several years of
IBB rule and finally 8 years of President Obasanjo civilian administration to
reverse Buhari’s blunders. “Once again, the ground is being set for a repeat of
foreign ostracism. History is about to be repeated by this irresponsible APC
and Buhari government. APC and Buhari are determined to win at all costs; they
care less whether Nigeria is plunged into nationwide crisis or even war. “Unless Nigerians of
goodwill (across party lines) act fast, the likelihood of our downward slide
into authoritarianism and constitutional crisis is imminent.” Frank also urged
the international community not to keep quiet especially as the country prepare
for the general elections. (Vanguard).