By Deborah Coker Benin – Mr Nduka Nwanwenne, the Benin Zonal Commander, National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP), says that since the creation of the zone in 2004, it has secured 70 human trafficking convictions. Nwanwenne disclosed this on Thursday in Benin, while presenting a
paper titled, “Understanding Modern-Day Slavery’’ at a two-day training
by the O-Centre for Journalism Development (OCJD). The zonal commander said that there were differences between
prostitution and human trafficking, adding that whereas the latter
involved exploitation and possibly prostitution, the former does not. He explained that human trafficking revolved round three elements, which are the Act, the Means, and the Purpose. Nwanwenne said that victims of human trafficking or modern-day slavery gave in to being trafficked for various reasons. “Some reasons victims give in to being trafficked are poverty,
ignorance, parental pressure, broken homes and the get-rich-quick
syndrome. “Other reasons include single parenthood, craze to go abroad, poor
economy, as well as peer group influence, illiteracy and unprotected
borders. “Whatever maybe the reason, the consequences of human trafficking
cannot be over-emphasised and the media is a critical stakeholder in the
fight against human trafficking,’’ the NAPTIP official said. He said that there was a need for the media to set the agenda in tackling the menace. Nwanwenne stressed that human trafficking was a global menace, with
huge consequences to the society, in spite of efforts by the government
to stem it through policies and programmes. Earlier in his opening remarks, Mr Temple Ajijola, Programme Manager,
O-Centre for Journalism Development (OCJD), said the training became
imperative after the organisation conducted a media mapping study of how
journalists in Edo reported issues around Modern-Day Slavery (MDS). Represented by Ms Adeshola Komolafe, he noted that in the course of
the study, two key issues emerged which included the fact that many of
the journalists have not been exposed to training for several years. He added that many journalists also do not understand Modern Day Slavery as a thematic area. The NAPTIP boss explained that it was against this background that
the OCJD decided to train journalists on several subjects under the
theme: “Understanding and Reporting Modern Slavery in Nigeria’’. Nwanwenne lamented that journalists who are expected to drive the
narrative on Modern-Day Slavery were not doing so, because of the
challenges and realities in reporting it.