Mashi – Gov. Aminu Masari of Katsina state has called on Nigerians to engage on issues that would promote peace and unite the nation instead of polarising it. Masari made the call when he addressed a mammoth crowd of party
members during his electioneering campaign in Mashi, headquarters of
Mashi local government area of the state on Sunday. He urged all Nigerians to shun divisive tendencies capable of
jeopardising peace and tranquility of the diverse socio-cultural
background of the people and concentrate on issues that would promote
the corporate existence of the nation. He said the All Progressives Congress (APC) led government was
committed to promoting security, peace ,unity and harmonious coexistence
amongst Nigerians irrespective of religion,tribe or creed. Masari noted that his administration had in the last two years
executed numerous developmental projects in Mashi Local Government Area
(LGA) aimed at ensuring even development across the 34 local government
areas of the state. He said prominent among the projects executed in the area were
,rehabilitation of the 40km Mashi -Birnin kuka,26km
Randa-Dogoru-Galli-Agala-Sonkaya-kwanar gwanti roads and construction of
27km Doka-Jana-Sonkaya road. He added that his administration had renovated Government Technical
College Mashi established in 1956 and constructed a junior secondary
school at Kasanki village ,stressing commitment to promoting education
as it was the bedrock of human development. The governor said that 26 primary schools were renovated and in
addition to construction of six schools in order to increase access to
education and ensure provision of conducive teaching and learning
environment in the area. He said within the period his administration had renovated the Mashi
women center and equipped it with working tools worth N35million to
promote job creation and self-reliance. According to him, the state government had also empowered no fewer
than 1,500 youths in the area with seed capital to enable them be
self-reliant Malam Ibrahim Doguru,the Mashi council chairman assured the governor
that the people of the area would massively vote for him and President
Muhammadu Buhari in the forthcoming elections He commended the governor for executing numerous projects in the area. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that during the visit, Gov Masari
was in company of the secretary to the state government, Dr Mustapha
Inuwa, other top government and the state APC officials, among others.