By Edeki Igafe  Warri   –      Mr Michael Tidi, Chairman, Warri South Local Government Area of Delta has appealed to the people to vote enmasse for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)-led government in the state in the forthcoming elections. Tidi made the appeal during the inauguration of the Warri South PDP Wards Campaign Organising Committee on Friday at the party secretariat in Warri. Tidi, who spoke with newsmen on the sideline of the inauguration, said the people could reciprocate, through votes, the good things Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa led-government had done for the people. “The people should appreciate what the PDP government has done for them by voting en masse for the six candidates we are presenting, from the Presidential level to the House of Assembly, ” he said. According to the chairman, the six candidates are: Alhaji Atiku Abubakar as President, Okowa as Governor, Mr James Manager as Senator to represent Delta South. Others he said, were: Mr Thomas Ereyitomi, Warri Federal Constituency, Mr Austin Oruoye and Mathew Opuoro for Warri South Constituency One and Two in the Delta House of Assembly. Tidi urged the committee members to channel their effort and wealth of experience by constituting canvassers, to ensure aggressive grassroots campaign to deliver their various wards for the party in the general elections. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that there are 12 wards in Warri South Local Government Area. Earlier, Mr Joseph Otumara, former Delta Commissioner for Health who performed the inauguration, called on the leaders to effectively cover their various wards while campaigning for votes. “We should, with our canvassers, intensify campaigning in our respective wards for the party to emerge victorious from the Presidency to the House of Assembly. “Our ultimate aim is victory and we are not going to spend money, as has been our tradition, to achieve result,” he said. Also, Mr Roland Oritsejafor, the Chairman, PDP Delta South Campaign Organisation urged the people to work in unity to achieve victory in the elections. Mr Robinson Ariyo, a PDP chieftain, expressed confidence in the calibre of persons in the campaign committee. According to him, the committee is made of seasoned politicians who have minimum of 10 years campaign and election experience in Warri South. “If PDP is able to organise itself well and key into the change people are yearning for, it will emerge victorious; from the Presidency to the House of Assembly. “So the organisation starts from the very smallest units, the wards committee leaders will go back to their various wards, constitute canvassers because the campaign is going to be aggressive and grassroots-based,” he said. The coordinator of Ward (One), Mr Dickson Omatseye, who spoke on behalf of the other leaders assured the party of their readiness to work and justify the confidence reposed in them.