By Ige Adekunle Sango-Ota (Ogun) –  The Ogun Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE) has warned motorists to desist from disobeying traffic rules and regulations as construction firms resume rehabilitation works across the state. The Corps’ Commander, Mr Seni Ogunyemi, gave the warning in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Ota on Wednesday. Ogunyemi said the warning became necessary in order to check excesses of road users and loss of lives and property at the construction sites. According to him, TRACE operatives will be on duty 24 hours at the construction sites to ensure sanity and strict compliance with the regulations. He said that some of the expectations of the agency in 2019 included ensuring zero tolerance for traffic violation, reducing crashes as well as fatality rate to the minimum level. NAN reports that Julius Berger Nigeria PLC, the company rehabilitating the Lagos-Ibadan expressway from Lagos to the Sagamu interchange, resumed work on Tuesday by diverting traffic and installing road barriers. Reynolds Construction Company (RCC), which is responsible for the rehabilitation of the other section of the expressway from the Sagamu interchange to Ibadan, would, however, be resuming shortly. Ogunyemi said RCC’s work would lead to diversion of traffic, especially within the Ogere axis of the expressway. He advised motorists to note this occurrence and drive cautiously, adding that they should exercise more restraint. The corps commander specifically enjoined travellers returning from the eastern part of the country to be extraordinarily cautious of rehabilitation work at Ogbere J4 Road and avoid driving against traffic on the Benin-Lagos expressway. “We have directed all divisional commanders to make towing trucks available at road corridors in their division to take care of breakdown vehicles. “Meanwhile, motorists are also free to call on TRACE when in distress,” he said. Ogunyemi further advised motorists to ensure an average speed limit of between 60-80 km per hour at portions of the road undergoing rehabilitation. “Articulated truck owners who fail to hook or belt their containers to their trucks would be apprehended and prosecuted. “Sand-carrying tippers which fail to cover the sand they convey with the recommended covering will also be treated in like manner. “The same treatment shall be meted out to fuel tankers whose owners have jettisoned proper care,” he said. Ogunyemi further appealed to all road-users to cooperate with TRACE operatives and the construction companies by removing all abandoned or broken down vehicles to avoid slow pace of work and gridlock on the roads. He commended the state government for putting the necessary infrastructure in place to enhance the activities of TRACE, enabling the traffic agency to achieve much during the past year. The TRACE boss also lauded those whose prompt alerts and assistance during emergencies went a long way in reducing accidents and saving lives.  (NAN)