By Chiazo Ogbolu Lagos – MTN Nigeria has instituted a legal action against the Kogi State Government, claiming N5 million damages, an official said on Tuesday.  The MTN’s Corporate Relations Executive, Mr Tobechukwu Okigbo, made this known in Lagos on Tuesday. According to him, the suit is as a
result of the shutdown and confiscation of telecommunications properties
and equipment of the firm by the Kogi State Board of Internal Revenue. Okigbo said that the
Attorney-General of Kogi State and the Nigerian Communications
Commission (NCC) were also named as parties to the suit. “The company contends in its summons
that by virtue of the provisions of Sections 4(2) and 5(1) and Item 46
Part 1 of the Second Schedule to the Constitution of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) only the Federal Government and
its organs/agencies can either legislate or take any executive action
affecting the business interest of the telecommunications company. “In the suit, filed at the Federal
High Court in Lokoja, the Kogi State capital, the firm argued that its
licence to operate in the state was rightfully granted by the NCC. “Despite the compliance by MTN with
all requirements and conditions for the grant of the licence by the
constitutionally-empowered organ, the NCC, the Plaintiff’s (MTN)
business premises and equipment were invaded by officers and men of the
Kogi State Internal Revenue Service, who shut down and confiscated the
business premises and equipment of the plaintiff on Jan. 23. “This act of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd
defendants has greatly affected the business and fortunes of the
plaintiff, ’’ Okigbo said in a statement. He said that MTN argued that the
Kogi State was not at liberty to usurp powers belonging to the Federal
Government with respect to regulating telecommunications companies. Okigbo said that the act of the 1st
to 3rd defendants was unconstitutional as it exceeded the competence of
the defendants and this unconstitutional exercise of powers must with
due respect, be stopped. He said that MTN was asking the
court for a declaration that the acts of shutting down the base stations
be deemed unconstitutional, null and void and a declaration that the
parties involved did not have the power to perform such acts in the
first place. Okigbo said that among other
reliefs, damages amounting to N5 million were being sought, including an
order directing the defendants to unseal and release to the MTN all its
equipment and property. “The company has fulfilled all tax obligations. “To the best of our knowledge, the
Minister of Finance’s recommendation as provided in the Act is yet to be
issued, and as such, it is unclear if the imposition of the fee by the
Kogi State Government is on a solid legal footing. “As a responsible corporate citizen, we accord the highest priority to our sub-national tax commitments. “We wish to state that we have met
in full all our tax obligations to the Kogi State Government and are not
in arrears,’ he said. “MTN has provided Kogi State
Internal Revenue Service (KGIRS) with documentary evidence on multiple
occasions to prove its tax compliance. “MTN remains committed to operating
in the state and working with relevant regulatory authorities in
reaching a lasting resolution, ‘’ Okigbo said.