By Auwalu Yusuf  Daura – A Katsina State-based political group, “The Sirika Initiative for Development (SID)’’ says President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election in the Feb.16 poll will enhance the fight against corruption and make dividends of democracy get to the grassroots. The Secretary General of the group, Malam Lawal Adam-TBO, made this
known in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria, (NAN) in Daura on
Monday. He said that the group had commenced an aggressive house-to-house and
door-to -door campaign toward the re-election of Buhari and the
Governor of Katsina State, Aminu Masari in the forthcoming general
elections. According to Adam-TBO, on the premise of promoting good governance
and total fight against corruption in our society, we at the Sirika
Initiative for Development have resolved to support the re-election of
President Muhammadu Buhari. He said the group had mapped out strategies of reaching out to the
electorate at their doorsteps and sensitising them on the imperative of
re-electing Buhari and Masari for the general development of the state
and Nigeria. Adam-TBO said their decision to embark on the massive voters’
sensitisation and mobilisation was informed by the glaring progress so
far recorded in the administration of President Buhari and Gov. Masari’s
administrations. According to him, the administrations have succeeded in redefining
the future of Nigeria and Katsina State, considering the cluster of
projects so far executed. He said the group was also motivated by the commitment and
determination of the Buhari’s administration in taming the tide of the
dreaded and cancerous menace of corruption, which had eaten deep into
the social fabrics. Adam-TBO added that the Masari’s administration had equally addressed
the hitherto instances of cattle rustling and armed banditry, saying
that government was working round the clock to address the recent
security breaches in some parts of the state. In a related development, the group also lauded the efforts of the
Minister of State for Aviation, Alhaji Hadi Sirika, for the support,
cooperation and understanding extended to them toward achieving their
vision. The group described the minister as a “bulldozer’’, who transformed
the nation’s aviation sector through reconstruction of several airports
runways and successfully made Nigeria to host the International Civil
Aviation Organisation meeting. The group noted that the minister had empowered over 1,200 people
through the Sirika Foundation for genuine development and provided the
beneficiaries with relevant working tools and seed capital. “In the last three years, the minister has given out over N5.5million
as empowerment to unemployed youths and other less privileged
individuals. “Another group of beneficiaries have received cash donations of between N50,000 and N100,000 respectively,’’ the group said. The group added that the aviation minister had provided
100 motorcycles, 15 Golf cars, 50 vulcanising and 50 water pumping
machines to promote agriculture and self-reliance. The group said that the minster secured employment for hundreds of qualified Nigerians in various federal agencies. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that political activities in
Katsina State have taken off ahead of the Feb. 16 and March 2 elections.