By Muhammad Nasir Bello Sokoto, – Gov. Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State says he will complete all ongoing projects across the state before embarking on new ones. Tambuwal is seeking re-election under the umbrella of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the March 2 governorship election. He gave the assurance while addressing party loyalists on Sunday at
rallies in Kebbe and Shagari Local Government Areas of the state. He stated that his administration had implemented laudable progammes
and laid the foundation for infrastructural and human development in the
state. “We will concentrate more on the completion of projects we started on
education and health sectors in order to facilitate public benefits,
before embarking on new ones. “Moreover, I want to assure you that our government will focus more
on improvement in education, security, agriculture and health sectors,
if re-elected” Tambuwal said. He said that his administration improved water supply and provided
electricity and support to orphans and other vulnerable groups in the
state, adding that he would do more. In his address, a former Governor of the State, Alhaji Attahiru
Bafarawa, commended the people for their support to the PDP and assured
them that the party’s victory would be of great benefit to the entire
state. Bafarawa called on party faithful to mobilise more support for all
PDP candidates in the country to enable them deliver on the good
programmes they promised. On his part, Alhaji Abdussamad Dasuki, member representing
Tambuwal/Kebbe in the House of Representatives, expressed hope that PDP
would record victory more than before in the history of democracy in the
state. “With the current support of our party in Sokoto state, we are fully
confident that PDP will record the highest victory ever in the history
of democracy in the state,” the lawmaker said. Dasuki thanked the people of his constituency for the continued
support accorded to him and PDP-led government in the state, while
assuring them on more progress ahead. Former Deputy Governor of the state, Alhaji Muktari Shagari, called on the people to vote for all PDP candidates in the country. “We have experience candidates, who will never take the country
backward as recorded in the past three and half years of All Progressive
Congress (APC)-led government in all areas of development. “As such, I urged you to vote APC out to prevent continuation of the
country’s current challenges of insecurity, corruption, hunger,” he said