ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – A civil rights organisation, Legislative Probity
and Accountability, on Tuesday issued the Lagos House of Assembly five
days deadline within which the lawmakers should account for the N28.8
billion running cost which they collected under the leadership of
Mudashiru Obasa. Should they fail, the organisation said it would
mobilise Nigerians and other progressive forces and use all legal
instruments to compel them to do so. The LPA threw the challenge in a statement signed by its chairman, Olu Fajana in Abuja on Tuesday. The
organisation linked the planned impeachment of Governor Akinwunmi
Ambode to the desperation of his adversaries to hang on him accusations
that he had been funding the campaign of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)
governorship candidate, Jimi Agbaje. Fajana said, “As a
legislative probity and accountability non-governmental organisation, we
are demanding that the Lagos House of Assembly should within the next
five days account for how the N28.8 billion so far collected as running
cost by the Obasa-led House has been expended. If they fail, we shall
mobilise Nigerians of likeminds and legally compel the Assembly to do
the needful.” According to him, the adversaries had also failed
to find any evidence that Ambode sponsored thugs that disrupted the All
Progressives Congress  governorship campaign flag-off in Ikeja few weeks
ago. He said: “We have watched with keen interest the latest
move by the Lagos State House of Assembly to impeach Governor Akinwunmi
Ambode on accounts of alleged gross misconduct and infractions based on
the 2018 and proposed 2019 budgets. While we will refrain from dabbling
into the politics of this misadventure, we demand that the Lagos
Assembly lawmakers must come to equity with clean hands. “It is
not our duty to ask the lawmakers not to probe Ambode if he has
committed any infraction, we dare say that the Mudashiru Obasa has been
collecting N9.6 billion each year and has so far pocketed N28.8billion
as running cost out of which the entire members have been paid only N2.4
billion in three years. “Where did the remaining over N26.4
billion disappear to? This question the Lagos House of Assembly must
answer and fully account for this taxpayers fund before going ahead with
their impeachment of Ambode agenda. It is alarming that the House
collects N800 million monthly as running cost, out of which each of the
40 members collects N2 million. “This huge sum amounts to N9.6
billion annually and in three years, the Obasa leadership has taken
N28.8 billion from taxpayers for nothing! It is obvious that the whole
essence of not allowing Ambode to present the 2019 budget proposal since
last year is to cripple his government and make him vulnerable. “It
is worrisome that the state legislature has abdicated its
responsibility and now busy phishing for grounds to impeach the governor
four months to the end of his four-year tenure. In this regard, we note
the frantic attempts by the governor’s adversaries to hang on his neck
accusation that he has been funding the campaign of opposition
governorship candidate, Jimi Agbaje, having failed to find any evidence
that he sponsored thugs that disrupted the APC governorship campaign
flag-off in Ikeja few weeks ago.”