By Philip Yatai Zaria – Kaduna State Government said it has spent over N52.5 billion on 99 projects in Zaria Local Government Area in the last three years, out of which N49.4 billion was expended on water supply and sanitation. Mr. Bashir Mohammed, Director General, Bureau for Public Service
Reform, disclosed this on Wednesday in Zaria, at a Policy Townhall
meeting organised by Planning and Budget Commission in collaboration
with the Ministry for Local Government. Mohammed said that N49.4 billion was expended on the construction of
two water treatment plants, refuse dump site and service reservoir, as
well as rehabilitation and expansion of water distribution network. Others include: rehabilitation of drainage channels and waste management evacuation. He also said that N700.6 million was spent on renovation of 12 health
centres, establishment of sexual assault centre, procurement of
hospital furniture and equipment. He said that other projects in the health sector include construction
of maternity complex, renovation of staff quarters and construction of
storm water drainage. “Similarly, N1.4 billion was equally spent on rehabilitation of 51
classrooms, burnt hostels and construction of three solar-powered
boreholes. “On infrastructure, the state government expended N937.2 million on
the construction of four roads, clearing of 10,000 hectares of land for
wheat farming and repair of council chamber at Emir of Zazzau Palace,”he
said. Mohammed explained that the meeting was primarily organised to
present the achievements of the current administration in the last 44
months in Zaria LGA and also get feedback from the people on the way
forward. The Chairman of the LGA, Aliyu Idris, thanked the state government
for organising the meeting, adding that the step would strengthen
people’s confidence in Gov. Nasir El-Rufai led government. “This is the first time a government in the state is making effort to
involve the people in governance through townhall meetings and other
means of citizen engagements,”he said. The Emir of Zazzau, Alhaji Shehu Idris, thanked the state government
for executing people-oriented projects in the area, which he described
as very encouraging. Idris, who was represented by Alhaji Sani Sambo, a member of the
emirate council, however, called for concerted effort to improve the
quality of health services to meet the needs of the masses. A women leader, Laraba Lazarus, also called on the government to pay
more attention on issues affecting women and children, adding that not
supporting women would slow down progress in communities.