ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – The Federal Government is harmonising the
various frameworks/plans for humanitarian and development assistance to
the Northeast region into a costed Multi-Year Humanitarian Development
Nexus Plan (2019-2021), which implementation is expected to commence in
2019. This was disclosed in Abuja on Tuesday by the Minister of
Budget and National Planning, Senator Udoma Udo Udoma, at a breakfast
meeting organized to appreciate the donors who pledged support for the
Lake Chad Region during the Oslo 2 Conference in Berlin in 2018. The
Minister explained that the Plan is being supported by the United
Nations Development Programme and other donors and will provide the
basis for the harmonization and layering of humanitarian, development
and peace support, which will also serve as Nigeria’s Implementation
Plan for the Northeast. “It is hoped that the plan to deepen
stabilisation and resilience will ride on financial support through a
Stabilisation Facility to be set up in collaboration with UNDP and all
other interested donors and partners,” he stated. The Minister
therefore called on all partners and donors to strengthen collaboration
with the government by directing efforts at leveraging and strengthening
the capacity of local actors and systems to respond to the needs of the
most vulnerable. Senator Udoma explained that the breakfast
meeting was arranged so that the Federal Government can express its
appreciation to those who participated in the 2018 High Level Conference
in Berlin, Germany (Oslo II), particularly the donors who pledged their
support. “This was a very successful conference which resulted in the
receipt of pledges of very helpful and significant sums of money for
humanitarian and development assistance in the Lake Chad Region. I thank
all of you for your continuing support.” The 2018 Conference was
a follow-up to the first Oslo Conference held in Norway in February
2017. The Minister recalled that the 2017 conference was the outcome of
growing concern for the humanitarian and other challenges experienced in
the North East of Nigeria and the whole of the Lake Chad region, caused
by the insurgency in the area. Giving a background to the 2017
Conference, the Minister said the scale of the problem was such that the
countries of the Lake Chad region needed some external assistance to
fully address it. He pointed out that It was for that reason that
Nigeria, working together with the neighbouring States, found it
necessary to mobilise international awareness as to the humanitarian
challenges experienced in the North East Nigeria and the Lake Chad
region and the need to scale up support in order to be able to
effectively address these humanitarian challenges. According to
him, the two High Level Conferences were very successful, as he recalled
that at Oslo 1, pledges of USD$672 Million were received as financial
support for 2017 while Oslo II was more successful as pledges totaling
US$ 2.17 billion were received for activities in 2018 and beyond for the
funding of humanitarian and peace-building/development activities in
the region. He re-iterated Federal Government’s determination to
provide durable solutions to the insurgency in the Northeast. “This was
why we launched the Buhari Plan in 2016 as the framework for engagement
in that region of Nigeria. This framework resulted in the setting up of
the Presidential Committee on the North-East Initiative (PCNI) to
coordinate the response in the region; the establishment of Operation
Safe Corridor to provide rehabilitation and reintegration support to
low-risk Boko Haram-associated persons, and, more recently, the creation
of the North-East Development Commission (NEDC) to tackle the root
causes of the crisis,” he explained. Stating President Muhammadu
Buhari is committed to ending the Boko Haram crisis in the Northeast,
the Minister explained that the Federal Government has been working in
active collaboration with the Governments of the neighboring Chad, Niger
and Cameroon in order to achieve this; and taken together, these
concerted efforts demonstrate strong political will in the four
countries to address the Lake Chad crisis effectively “You will
recall that in February 2018, Heads of States from the sub-region
converged at Abuja for the International Conference on Lake Chad to
explore regional solutions that would address the diminishing water
levels of Lake Chad. The conference resulted in the endorsement of an
inter-basin water transfer to recharge the Lake, which would return the
region to its hitherto, buoyant economic activities and thereby address
one of the root causes of the crisis”, he stated. The breakfast
meeting was attended by high level officers of the European Union and
United Nations agencies in Nigeria including the German Ambassador to
Nigeria, Bernhard Schlegheck; his Norwegian counterpart, Petter
Kyemprud; European Union Head of Cooperation, Kurt Cornelis; the
Resident/Humanitarian Coordinator of United Nations Systems in Nigeria,
who was represented by the Head of UN-OCHA, Ms Edem; the acting Country
Director UNDP, Ms Betty; and the Regional Director of UNIDO, Jean
Bakole, among others. 