By Felix Ugboja ABUJA (Sundiata Post) Building on the collective efforts of all electoral stakeholders in support of peaceful elections, UN Women, the African Union and the Embassy of Germany organized a forum that brought together women leaders from across different networks and sectors to discuss strategies on how women can better contribute to peaceful elections. The forum, which held on Wednesday at Transcorp Hilton hotel Abuja, brought various actors together including the national electoral management body (INEC), the security sector, the media, academia and the civil society to discuss their roles in promoting women’s peaceful participation in the elections as candidates and the electorate. The Women Leaders are urging the country to agree on involving women to promote peaceful elections as the country is preparing for its general elections on 16™ February 2018. The event is taking place ahead of the launch of African Women Leadership Network (AWLN) in Nigeria.There has been increasingly visible cases of violence and disruptions of peace during the campaign season across different political parties and within various electioneering activities across the country. As elections are the main vehicle by which leadership is established in a democracy, violence of any sort remains a danger to preserving and upholding the democratic life of any nation. With women and youth constituting more than half of Nigeria’s voting population, and identified as most vulnerable in situations of violence, gender-related violence in elections remains a barrier to women’s political participation. Violence against women in elections is not just a personal violation of a woman’s civic rights, but constitutes a systematic barrier to free, fair and inclusive democracy. Speaking during the event UN Women Country Representative, Ms. Comfort Lamptey said “Peaceful Elections devoid of all forms of violence can only happen when citizens fully understand how it impacts our progress as individuals, citizens and as a nation. Women need active roles in elections. We need women’s full participation not only as voters but also in increasing women in leadership positions as well as in peace committees. Building sustainable peace requires commitment and strong partnership between the government, security sector, electoral bodies and the media to create a peaceful environment where the differences will be respected, and the focus must be development of the country”. The African Women Leadership Network which is about to be launched is an initiative that seeks to create space for African Women to share leadership experiences and to enhance the leadership of women in the transformation of Africa with a focus on governance, peace, stability and development. It is a joint initiative of the Africa Union (AU) Commission and the United Nations (UN), through the Offices of the AU Special Envoy on Women, Peace and Security, and of the UN Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women). It is supported by the Federal Republic of Germany. It mobilizes African Women Leaders to play a significant role in the transformation of the continent, as aspired to, in both the “Africa Agenda 2063” and the 2030 Global Sustainable Development Goals. “The Africa We Want,” envisions an Africa that is people-centered, with gender equality and where women are empowered and play their rightful role in all spheres of life. Deep rooted patriarchal cultural patrons, high levels of poverty and illiteracy among women as well as gender-based violence, are big obstacles for women’s full political participation. At the same time, the perception that the realm of politics belongs only to men is still widely spread . The Women Leaders in Nigeria are advocating for stronger measures to remove such obstacles full participation in the electoral process and the political sphere as a whole. 