By Olajide Idowu  Osogbo   –       Civil servants in Osun on Wednesday resumed work after observing the New Year celebration in line with the Federal Government’s declaration of Tuesday as a public holiday. A visit by correspondent of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) showed that the state secretariats in Abere, Osogbo and Olorunda Local Government Secretariat were beehive of activities. NAN also reports that Federal Government’s establishments reopened for business with many civil servants going about their lawful duties. It was observed that while some were seen exchanging greetings, others were saying prayers with their colleagues. Similarly, commercial banks in Osogbo reopened for business and were attending to their customers for various transactions. A civil servant, Mr Adeyemi Fatai, told NAN that he was happy because of the renewed hope that 2019 has brought to him. According to him, 2018 was a turbulent year, stressing that the new would bring him better fortunes just as other workers. “It is a thing of joy and happiness to make it to a new year, and it gladdens my heart to be at work, to be with my friends and colleagues, as God had spared us to be alive. “I believe things would work out fine this year and better opportunities will come our way, as I trust God to turn things around for me and other workers in the state. “Our new governor has promised us workers, that he would be paying us full salaries, and I believe this is a sign of better things that will be coming this year,” he said. Another civil servant, Mrs Esther Popoola, who lauded God for keeping her alive to witness the new year, expressed optimism that things would turn around for the better in the state and Nigeria in 2019. “I thank God for sparing my life till today, I believe God has a purpose for doing things and I know the problems and challenges we are facing in this country will soon be over. “ I know that God will choose good leaders for us this year, because we have learnt from our human mistakes, and we have prayed for guidance and good leadership from Him. “I believe this year, God will help our government solve the many crises they are facing and hopeful that the welfare of workers too will be adequately taken care of,” she said.