 Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Sacked Executive Secretary of Tertiary
Education Trust Fund, TETfund, has revealed that his refusal to give kick-back
to the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu was the reason behind his sack by the
Federal Governmentreasons for his sack by the federal government. Recall that Mr Bichi was on Monday replaced with Suleiman
Bogoro, who was removed in 2014. The Ministry of Education later issued a
statement confirming President Muhammadu Buhari’s approval of the reinstatement
of Bogoro as TETFund boss. The Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu,
according to the statement, said the re-instatement of Mr Bogoro is with
immediate effect, with the same terms and conditions as it were in his
previous appointment and as stipulated in the TETFUND staff conditions of
service. But in an interview with the BBC Hausa
Service on Wednesday morning, Mr Bichi said he was sacked for his refusal to
give bribe to the minister of Education not insubordination, inaccessibility
and speaking to the press without authorisation. “On Friday night, I was informed at the
Presidential Villa that Minister of Education came with a letter reporting me
to the president. “This is not the first time Adamu Adamu
reported me to the president, requesting my sack but the president stood his
ground and refuse to sack me,” he told the BBC. When the interviewer asked him about
the authenticity of his source, Mr Bichi said he was certain the information
was accurate. “My source is reliable. On Saturday
night, I was reliably informed that I would be removed. “I asked what was my offence? They
alleged that the offences were inaccessibility, insubordination and speaking to
the press without the minister’s authorisation. “Allegation of inaccessibility is
unfounded as the minister knows that I spend more time in the ministry as his
technical aide than in my TETfund office. “I do not regret my refusal to obey the
minister’s directives because I cannot sabotage my country. “Go and ask the minister. Eight months
ago, Mallam Adamu Adamu sent one of his biggest contractors to tell me that the
minister was angry with me for three reasons. “The third issue is that TETffund
disbursed over N200 million to universities without remitting the percent
kickback, amounting to at least N20 million
at 10 percent rate. “The fact is that since I started this job, I have never demanded a single
kobo from any university. If any university shows proof of collecting kickback
from them, let death sentence be passed on me,” he added SOURCE: Daily Nigerian