By Habibu Harisu Kware – The National Orientation Agency (NOA) in Sokoto state, has began statewide campaign on proper voting patterns, dangers of electoral violence and good conducts in the upcoming  general elections. Speaking at the inauguration of the exercise in Kware Local
Government Area on Thursday, the state Director of NOA, Alhaji Maude
Danchadi, said it was a continuation of the agency’s effort to ensure
smooth conduct of the elections. Danchadi explained that objective was to educate voters on their
civic responsibilities, discourage voter apathy and ensure active
participation in the polls. He said it was also focused on ensuring peaceful conduct, proper
voting, discouraging vote buying and educating voters on penalties for
electoral offences. ” The agency is sensitising the people on need to protect and promote
national unity, reject leaders that manipulate them for selfish
interest. “We are also educating them to know that ethnic associations are
tools of promoting development not platform to cause inter communal
fights,“he said. Danchadi called on politicians to avoid malpractice, inducing voters,
promoting hate speeches, spreading fake news during the general
elections, and always strive for the betterment of the people. The director urged electoral officers and security personnel to
display transparent conduct during the exercise and remain apolitical. He urged religious and community leaders, youth groups and political
parties to continue with the sensitisation campaign in their localities. Also speaking, the District Head of Kware, Alhaji Aliyu Abubakar,
expressed optimism that issues discussed would facilitate successful
conduct of the election. Abubakar urged the people not to allow themselves to be misled by
politicians who may use religion to campaign before the election and
later betray the trust reposed in them. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event was attended
by security agencies including Nigerian Security and Civil Defence
Corps, National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency and Road Safety Corps.