By Temitope Ponle Abuja, – ECOWAS is seeking about 100 million dollars for its conflict prevention framework aimed at promoting regional peace, security and economic development. Representatives of the commission highlighted 15 components of the
ECOWAS Conflict Prevention Framework (ECPF) in an official launch in
Abuja on Monday. The 15 components captured human rights, rule of law, media, cross
border initiatives, natural resource governance, youth empowerment,
women, peace and security, ECOWAS standby force, humanitarian
assistance, among others. A document presentation on ECPF Action Plans by Mr Constant Gnacadja,
Programme Officer, Conflict Prevention, ECOWAS Commission stated that
the action plans were developed in 2012 for the period of 2013 to 2017. “There is limited implementation of the first Action Plan due to
political instability, limited funding, lack of internal support and the
Ebola epidemic. “In late 2017, the commission, in collaboration with the European
Union Support to ECOWAS Regional Peace and Security and Stability
(EU-ECOWAS PSS) decided to produce action plans that would cover the 15
ECPF components for a three-year period, 2018 to 2020.” Gnacadja, in his presentation, said that the action plans were
developed through a consultative exercise involving the validation of
representatives of ECOWAS directorates, member states and civil society. He explained that each action plan comprised a general description
of  ECPF component and a log frame outlining the main objectives,
expected results, outputs, activities and an estimated budget. Gen. Francis Behanzin, ECOWAS Commissioner for Political Affairs,
Peace and Security said that ECPF was adopted to facilitate the Protocol
on the Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management, Resolution,
Peacekeeping and Security of Dec. 1999. Behanzin said the ECPF would serve as a guiding reference for member
states in their efforts to strengthening human security in the region. “This idea of a peaceful, progressive and prosperous region has been
the main motivation of the ECOWAS Mediation and Security Council when it
was adopted, in 2008, the ECPF. “The council realises that to achieve this idea, conflict prevention
should not only become a core responsibility of the commission but also
member states and governments directly affected by conflicts. “It is also the responsibility of the citizens as activists of civil
society and the international community. Our goal here today is to take
responsibility for its success by mobilising resources for their
implementation. “We are convinced that together, we can ensure that the Commission
has sufficient technical and financial resources to implement the action
plans by 2020,” he said. In his keynote speech, Amb. Ketil Karlsen, Head of EU Delegation to
Nigeria and ECOWAS, described ECPF as a wide-ranging and effective
conflict prevention and peacebuilding mechanism. Karlsen urged ECOWAS to leverage on its capacity to attract the
resources required for implementation from partners and other
stakeholders. The EU ambassador also announced a new project aimed at supporting
the prevention and the management of conflict and security threats in
West Africa. “Let me take the opportunity to inform this gathering of an upcoming
new EU, which is the ECOWAS peace and security architecture and
operations programme within the context of the 11th European Development
Fund. “This programme will be implemented from 2019 to 2023 in partnership
with the GIZ-ECOWAS Support programme and it aims to supporting ECOWAS
in the prevention and the management of conflicts and security threats
in West Africa,” he said. He said that the framework of ECPF action plans would continue to be
critical to the successful implementation of the new programme. In his message of goodwill, the Ambassador of Denmark to Nigeria,
Amb. Jesper Kamp, reiterated his government’s support for ECOWAS and the
ECPF in particular. Kemp said that the Danish Government had funded the ECPF secretariat
as well as the Mediation Facilitation Division as part of its Africa
Programme for Peace. He said: “It ensures activities are developed with the overall goals
of the organisation; it ensures transparency on the budgets needed to
obtain these goals.”