Abuja – An Abuja Federal High Court, has restrained the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, (EFCC), the Department of State Services (DSS) and the Nigeria Police from arresting or detaining Femi Fani-Kayode and Yinka Odumakin. Justice John Tsoho, gave the order on Monday, following an ex parte
application argued by Mr Chukwuma Machukwu-Ume (SAN) on behalf of the
duo. Machukwu-Ume told the court that the three security agencies were
planning to arrest and detain his clients over comments they made with
regard to the travails of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter
Onnoghen. “The spokesman of the EFCC, Mr Tony Orilede, was alleged to have made
the threat to arrest them publicly at a conference where he represented
the EFCC chairman. “He said they are doing everything possible to arrest these two gentlemen just for speaking their minds. “The EFCC is established to pursue corruption and not comments made by Nigerians, expressing themselves,” he said. The lawyer told the court that his clients had gone into hiding for
fear of being arrested for merely expressing their freedom of speech,
alleging that their family lives had also been affected by the alleged
threat. Machukwu-Ume told the court that the application was brought pursuant
to Section 6 (6)(b) and Section 46 of the 1999 Constitution as well as
Order 4 Rules 3 of the Fundamental Rights Procedure Rules. He urged the court to grant the order restraining the respondents
from arresting and detaining his clients pending the determination of
the application on notice. Justice Tsoho said that he was satisfied that the applicants had made a case that their lives were being threatened. “I am satisfied that the applicants have made out a case for the court’s intervention.
“Accordingly, the respondents are restrained from either arresting or
detaining the applicants on grounds of the applicants’ public statements
pending the determination of the application on notice,” the judge
ruled. The Judge adjourned the matter until Feb. 4.