By Ikemefuna Okudolo Lagos – A university lecturer, Prof. Victor Ojakorotu, said in Lagos on Wednesday that governments in Africa were not making enough investments to secure the environment to protect people from hazards. Ojakorotu made the statement in an interview with a correspondent of the News Agency of Nigeria in Lagos. He said the investments being made by many governments in Africa were
negligible to mitigate various environmental problems, including
climate change and other challenges. “The reality is that these environmental problems are the root cause of conflicts in Africa. “Many of the intra and inter-state conflicts have links to squabbles over land, water and other natural resources. Ojakorotu, a lecturer at North West University in South Africa, said
that environmental problems were among the most pressing developmental
challenges plaguing the African continent. “Our continent’s environmental problems have resulted to a rise in
intra and inter-state politics, diplomacy and multi-lateral agreements
to curb the negative scale of the socio-economic and political problems
brought about by the environment. “Therefore, the need to ensure environmental sustainability through
increased investments to mitigate adverse environment by our political
leaders in Africa cannot be under-estimated.’’ The don stressed that African scholars needed to engage more on issues relating to environmental security of African countries. “A group of African scholars have resolved to engage this problem by
calling for well researched papers which shall be complied into a manual
to provide guidance towards the continent’s policy direction. “We are collaborating with a United Kingdom-based university to
enable African scholars in the diaspora to contribute to lessening the
scourge of climate change and other environment hazards on our people,’’
he said. NAN learnt that North West University is already collaborating with
the University of Bradford in the United Kingdom, to organise a
three-day conference with theme: “Environmental Security, Diplomacy and
Conflict in Africa’’ as part of efforts to design a blueprint to address
the problem. The conference is billed to hold between July 25 and July 27 at the University of Bradford.