By  Okeoghene Akubuike Abuja, – The Federal Government has directed Universal Basic Education Commission’s (UBEC) to allocate two per cent of its operational funds to Quality Assurance. Mr Ossom Ossom, Head Public Relations and Protocol Unit, UBEC, who
disclosed this on Monday in Abuja, said earmarking two per cent of
UBEC’s operational fund for quality assurance was a fundamental step
toward improving the funding arrangement. He added that it would ensure the institutionalisation of a robust,
functional, comprehensive, sustainable, effective, and efficient quality
assurance system at the SUBEB and Local Government Education Authority
(LGEA) levels. “Earmarking 2 per cent of UBEC’s operational fund for quality
assurance is a fundamental step toward improving the funding arrangement
and ensuring the institutionalisation of a robust, functional,
comprehensive, sustainable, effective, and efficient quality assurance
system at the SUBEB and LGEA levels. “The newly instituted funding arrangement seeks to empower quality
assurance personnel at all levels in the conduct of quality assurance
related field work. “10 to 20 per cent of the quality assurance fund is expected to be
utilised for strengthening Quality Assurance Departments at SUBEBs and
LGEAs. “20 to 35 per cent is to be used for empowering quality assurance
personnel while 50 to 60 per cent is designated to be expended on the
purchase of monitoring vehicles and related issues,” he said Ossom said the renewed interest and commitment to reinvigorating the
quality assurance process in the basic education sub-sector through the
new framework and improved funding was bound to impact positively on all
aspects of school life. He said it would ultimately complement other efforts geared towards
ensuring that competitive standards were attained and sustained in UBE
delivery. “There are sufficient reasons to be optimistic that this new quality
assurance initiative will enliven and set UBEC and its state partners on
the right path in their efforts at monitoring, assessing, evaluating,
reporting and taking positive steps toward enhancing UBE quality
assurance mechanism. “Firstly, this renewed quality assurance drive is the outcome of
deliberations by an expert Committee set up by UBEC for this purpose and
chaired by an accomplished academic and one-time Acting UBEC Executive
Secretary, Prof. Charles Onocha. “Secondly, critical stakeholders including heads of basic education
agencies at the State level have reviewed and applauded the provisions
contained in the new framework. “Finally, the UBEC Governing Board has thrown its weight behind the
new quality assurance thinking by granting express approval for the
allocation of specific resources for its implementation. ” Consequently, UBEC quality assurance personnel, their State and
LGEA counterparts are delighted at the new development and have pledged
to work assiduously towards attaining the objective of instituting and
sustaining quality inputs, processes and outcomes in basic education
delivery,” he said. He said it was important to emphasize that the basic education sector
required much more than nice frameworks, efficient resourcing and
committed personnel. Ossom said it should also be noted that the support of stakeholders,
especially school level actors was crucial to the attainment of the
noble objectives of the new quality assurance framework. He said it, therefore, behooved on basic education stakeholders,
particularly system administrators at the state and LGEA level, school
heads, teachers and other members of the school/community to brace up
for proactive collaboration with UBEC. “This will help UBEC in its bid to reinvigorate the process of
enhancing the various inputs and processes that are critical to the
attainment of the full objectives of the UBE programme.”