By Victor Adeoti Osogbo – President Muhammadu Buhari, on Saturday met with Osun traditional rulers in Osogbo, soliciting their support for his re-election bid.The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the President, who was in the state for his presidential campaign, met with traditional rulers at the Government House, Osogbo.The president said since the traditional rulers were closer to the people, their support for improved security was importantBuhari said his administration had made positive progress in the area of security, economy and also fought bribery and corruption in the country.He said his administration’s intervention in agriculture had made the country to achieve food security. According to him, the present administration will engage more people in agriculture by providing soft loans to farmers. ” With our intervention in agriculture, we have achieved food security. We now produce what we eat.” I have also directed the CBN governor not to provide foreign exchange for anyone who want to import into the country except those who want to invest in the country”.On the issue of security, Buhari urged the traditional rulers to assist government to secure the society by securing their communities.“Since 2013 till date, I always request to see the traditional rulers in any state I travel to because of their closeness to the people.“And I always appeal to them to secure the society by securing their communities,” the president said. Buhari appeal to the traditional rulers to ensure that their subjects eschew violence during the elections.In his remarks, Gov. Adegboya Oyetola, said people of the state would repeat their 2015 feat by voting massively for President Buhari come Feb. 16. Oyetola commended the president for his support for the state.The Orangun of Ila, Oba Wahab Oyedotun, who spoke on behalf of other traditional rulers, promised that the traditional rulers would deliver the state to the President.Oba Oyedotun said the good work of the president was enough to ensure his victory. “Mr President, you dont have any problem in Osun, you are winning.“You dont need to campaign because the good work you have done in the state and the country will speak for you,” he said. Diginateries at the meeting included Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomohole, Minister of health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, among others.(NAN)