By Ifeanyi Olannye Asaba –   Chief Funkekeme Solomon, Director-General, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Delta Campaign Council, on Thursday said that the policy of rotational governorship had brought peace, unity and cohesion to the state. The director-general made this known in Asaba while briefing newsmen on the party’s readiness to flag-off the state campaign for governorship and other candidates. The campaign will kick off on Friday in Oghara, Ethiope West Local Government Area of the state. He said that the party had chosen to return the incumbent governor, Sen. Ifeanyi Okowa, for three reasons concerning: performance, constitution and as a citizen of the state from Delta North Senatorial District. Solomon said that the governor as a good ambassador of the party and the state, was qualified to contest for a second term as provided by the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. He said that based on the rotational policy of Delta, Okowa was entitled to run the affairs of the state for another four years, saying that the policy had enabled those in the minority to govern without hitches. Solomon said that nobody with good conscience would contest the rotational governorship because it had ensured equity, fairness and promoted sense of belonging in the state. He said that Okowa had delivered on road infrastructure, health, education, agriculture, drainages, job creation, sports, peace and security, among others. According to him, the governor kept his promise to ensure even development of the state in the past three and a half years. “The rotational governorship is Delta’s policy and not that of PDP. The rotational policy pointed toward peace, unity, equity, fairness and in fact, was constitutional in that it had brought cohesion in the state. “So, only someone who lived outside this state and comes in periodically will contest the validity of this policy. “Even some who are currently championing the opposition party now in the state are beneficiary of the rotational policy. Those who came from a very minute group had become governors because of this policy,’’ Solomon said. He said that the party’s campaigns would run across the 25 Local Government Areas (LGAs) from Jan. 4 and would come to a close on Jan. 30 at Burutu LGA. Solomon said that the essence of the campaign was to present the score cards of the party’s candidates and that of the governor in particular, to the people. He said that the party would return the governor, all the candidates and the presidential candidate of the party. (NAN)