By Ginika Okoye  Abuja – The Nigeria Cassava Growers Association (NCGA) on Tuesday said it was ready to hold a world summit on cassava to sensitise stakeholders on the potentialities of the crop in the country. Pastor Segun Adewumi, the National
President of the Association, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in
Abuja that the summit was also aimed at attracting government’s
intervention on the produce. Adewumi, who expressed regret over
the neglect of the produce, said that cassava had the potential to
employ over five million Nigerians both youths and women. “We are making an arrangement to
have a world summit on cassava, and we are envisaging the various organs
of government to collaborate with us. “Cassava can face oil; and we can even make better money than you get from oil, if we pay attention to it. “It can employ over five million Nigerians both as farmers, industrial or factory workers. “The entire world concedes cassava production to Nigeria, and it is what you have that you promote. “Cassava can give Nigeria more than their earnings from oil. “Due to what is happening in the
world now, our oil might phase off; so, I think we should go into
massive cassava production and processing,’’ he advised. Adewunmi was optimistic that the
summit to sensitise the farmers, stakeholders and states with
comparative advantage of the crop would hold before the 2019 general
elections. The national president said that the association currently had no fewer than over 1.6 million registered members. He appealed to the Central Bank of
Nigeria (CBN) to facilitate the disbursement of loans to cassava farmers
under the Anchor Borrowers Programme. “We are exporting job opportunities
by depending on imported wheat, and it has been proved that cassava is
healthier to our health than white wheat flour. “So, these are the things that we
want to enlighten people and government about, so that they can
legislate rightly on the use of cassava. “We hope that the government will come up with something that will help the cassava farmers in Nigeria.’’