By Aisha Cole Lagos, – Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) says it is fully committed to the provision of an enabling environment for businesses to grow in the maritime sector. Managing Director of the NPA, Ms Hadiza Bala- Usman, said the
authority would ensure an improvement in the Nigerian-Danish trade
relations. Bala-Usman made this known on Tuesday in Lagos while receiving the Danish Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr Jesper Kamp. She told the ambassador that the Authority was committed to the
development of deep seaports across Nigeria in line with the development
of global economy. Bala-Usman said that efforts were ongoing to increase the depth of
the draught of Onne Port to 11 metres as a way of encouraging bigger
vessels to berth. She noted that as a pioneer in the maritime business, the Authority
would always tap from the wealth of experience of the Danish Government. Earlier, the ambassador had told the managing director that the visit
was part of his efforts to promote Danish-Nigerian trade relations and
attract investments to Nigeria. Kamp said that besides facilitating investments in infrastructure in
Nigeria, he had been mobilising Danish companies to invest in Nigeria as
exemplified by MAERSK Line and other companies. The ambassador said that the Danish government operated 30 commercial
vessels in the Gulf of Guinea and, therefore, the country was concerned
about security in the Nigerian maritime domain. The envoy said that the Danish government was collaborating with
NIMASA and IMO on training of marine cadets and maritime security. He called on NPA to be part of the collaboration. In his contribution, the Managing Director of MAERSK Line, Mr Gildas
Tohouo, who accompanied the Danish ambassador, commended NPA and other
stakeholders for their support for Maersk Line and for efforts at
increasing the depth of Onne Port. The Maersk Line boss also reiterated the willingness of the company
to patronise Onne Port the moment the port channel was deepened by
additional one metre as being proposed. Tohouo said that Maersk Line operations would eventually increase the revenue base of Onne port by $2 million (N610 million)