By Ikenna Uwadileke Abuja, – Mr Afolabi Imoukhuede, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Job Creation and Youth Empowerment, on Tuesday said that the Npower would engage 7,000 youths from across the country in software development programmes. Imoukhuede said this on Tuesday at the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) Forum in Abuja. He said that the programme would be
introduced as part of the mandate of the scheme to economically empower
the youth in the country. He noted that no fewer than 50,000
Nigerian youth were already engaged in skills acquisition programmes in
different parts of the country with additional 500,000 graduates engaged
as volunteers in N-Agro, N-Teach and N-Health since 2016. According to Imoukhuede, there is
need for the country to begin to use technology or new thinking to solve
some perennial challenges confronting the country. “We are to stimulate a lot in young
people for them to begin to think out of the box or even imagine a no
box at all and really bring up ideas,’’ he said. Imoukhuede emphasised the need for
the country to strengthen efforts toward unlocking the potential in
Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) through technological innovations. “SMEs are greater core not only to our youth but to all, and that is where an average youth will blend as a micro player. “In looking at job creation, we realised that SME is the engine of any formidable economy. “So for us, we looked at it that it was with the least attention or the greatest challenge. “We designed strategies targeted at
unlocking the binding constraints that had hitherto hampered the
successful entry of our micro enterprises into mainstream business. “That is one of the areas we looked at because that in many ways is to unlock entrepreneurship. “When you begin to look at
unemployment we must wake up to the reality that the white collar jobs
are not there in the number to match the number of our teeming graduates
that are getting to the labour market. “So the earlier we begin to redirect
them in the area of innovations using technology to promote
entrepreneurship the better for us,’’ Imoukhuede stated. He, however, observed that the federal government had recorded successes in its social investment programmes. According to him, 9.3 million children in 26 states so far are benefiting from the home grown school feeding programme. “While this caters for our young
school children, it also serves as a job creation tool because in that
programme 9.3 million children are being fed in over 26 states. “100,000 cooks are being recruited
to cook the food while 90,000 farmers as well are engaged because the
instruction is that we must eat what we grow locally. “Another is the conditional cash
transfer of N5,000 that we pay to the most vulnerable which we pay to
the poorest of the poor, the aged and the widows. “Also is the government enterprise
empowerment programme, the Trader money, the farmer money for the
different groups just to create access to finance for artisans and
traders,’’ Imoukhuede said