By
Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja
(Sundiata Post) _ Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP
and former vice president of Nigeria, Atiku Abubakar has made quite some
interesting points regarding what he will do, if elected. The
presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar is
optimistic that he will emerge victorious in the forth coming general election
if it is conducted in a free, fair, credible and transparent manner. In a town hall meeting tagged: ‘’The Candidates”, organised
by the MacArthur Foundation in collaboration with NTA and DARIA media on
Wednesday evening in Abuja, which Atiku attended alongside his VP candidate,
Peter Obi, he had the following to say. On Boko Haram: He’d be willing to
investigate the military hierarchy Abubakar said that as part of plans to combat Boko Haram
insurgency in the country’s Northeast, his government if elected, would be
willing to investigate the military hierarchy. “We cannot continue to accept that kind of situation whereby
commanders lose lives, lose equipment to terrorists and then nothing happens to
them,’’ On Farmer/herders clashes: feeding lots
practices should be encouraged across the country Farmers and herdsmen clashes have been on the increase in
recent times, with hundreds of Nigerians being murdered in cold blood, while farm investments worth
millions lost to these clashes. As solution to the menace, Abubakar said there
was need to enlighten the herders on feeding lots. “There is need for extensive public sensitisation of these
herders to adopt this solution to minimize this crisis,’’ adding that this
would not only reduce the crises, as it would also increase their income. On fighting corruption: Amnesty will be
granted to repentant corrupt persons The former vice president said he would Consider amnesty for
corrupt persons willing to Surrender Loot. According to Abubakar, his
government will make it possible for corrupt former public officials to return
their loot without prosecution. He noted that strong policies would be put in
place to prevent and fight corruption. “If you are to go and be prosecuting these people, you will still be prosecuting them and would not get the money.” Source: Information Nigeria