A white man I met at Apo Mechanic Village in Abuja, recently, stood
stupefied as near-illiterate young men dismembered his car to work on
it. In no time, they replaced a few parts and re-fixed the car. “You mean you don’t use a manual?” he asked. “No,” one excited auto electrician who was working with a mechanic replied. “The manual dey for my head.” I
watched as the European shook his head. He must have murmured to
himself, “These people have got talent! These blacks don’t know what
they’ve got.” Ndigbo’s ingenuity is no longer debatable. What is
perhaps debatable is the quality of their political and business leaders
over the years. A technology hub in Nigeria and Africa, if it
must exist, should of necessity be sited in the south-eastern part of
this country. I say so because almost all the mechanic and computer
“villages” in Lagos, Abuja, Kano and other towns and cities are
populated by mainly Igbo people who amaze their clients with
technological wizardry. Why, I sometimes wonder, have southeast
businesspeople and governments failed to build hubs to harvest the
wasting talent of their people? As a young business reporter in the
early 1990s, I used to visit Nnewi and Onitsha to interview businessmen
and see things for myself. A few times in those days, I published
articles describing Nnewi as Nigeria’s Silicon Valley because of the
several plants I visited where motor parts, electrical cables, and
paints were manufactured. Even the hotels I stayed in looked better than
many found in Lagos, though they were cheaper. It was in those
days that traders at Alaba International Market were preparing to
replicate Alaba in the eastern heartland. They said they were doing so
because the Lagos State government was fond of exploiting them, without
considering that Alaba was a wilderness before they got there and
developed it.  The expectation then was that an airport proposed to be
built at Oba (near Onitsha) would be completed and River Niger dredged
to take ships within a few years. A quarter-century later, neither has happened. Nor have Alaba traders built their market in Igboland. What’s the problem? I’m
not even eager to see new markets and more traders. I want to see
entrepreneurs with workable ideas – young people with skills needed for
manufacturing many of the items currently imported from China, India,
the Koreas, Malaysia and other countries that were less developed than
Nigeria in the 1960s. Although mimicries of technology hubs exist in
towns like Nnewi and Aba, they have been unable to fly. An exception
must be a company like Innoson Motors. But, given the right environment,
many entrepreneurs in Enugu, Umuahia, Abakaliki, Calabar, Owerri, Port
Harcourt, Nsukka, Asaba and Uyo would be making vehicles as well. It’s
easy to attribute this anomaly to Nigeria’s flawed education system,
policy somersaults and the perceived marginalization of areas in the
former Biafran enclave – the civil war of the late 1960s has not really
ended in a “no victor, no vanquished” as mouthed by several of Nigeria’s
former leaders. The Yakubu Gowon military government launched the
policy of 3Rs – Reconciliation, Reconstruction and Rehabilitation – but
the 3Rs were never implemented in the southeast where they were needed. The
war ended 49 years ago.  Is it not time the Igbo rediscovered
themselves? Ndigbo say that he who is rejected doesn’t reject himself. Perhaps
what the southeast and other parts of the country lack is good
leadership. Since the return of democracy, 20 years ago, any governor
with vision ought to have built a hub for entrepreneurs in his state.
Just as the state of California has done in the United States:
California owes its stupendous wealth to Silicon Valley, the birthplace
of most modern inventions – Apple, Microsoft, Facebook, Google and
thousands of other multi-billion-dollar companies all dwell in Silicon
Valley. State governments ought to have since made conscious
efforts to accommodate traders and craftsmen, most of whom currently
work in every corner of the world, in their own homelands. Every now and
then, rioters descend on south-easterners not because of any religious
or tribal sentiments but simply out of jealousy. When I complained to
one director from the north about “religious riots”, sometime in 1988,
he interrupted me with “Which religion?” From him I learned that what
the media used to call “religious” riot was indeed “economic” riot! Some
indigenous people couldn’t understand why settlers would prosper in
their midst while they, the original inhabitants, couldn’t get by. Accordingly,
I propose that the unexploited talents of the people of southeast
Nigeria be merged with our education system to trigger a technology
revolution that would bring both prestige and economic benefits to the
states and the country. It would be more profitable than crude oil. It’s
time for every southeast governor to map out areas to develop with
necessary infrastructure – good roads, electricity, clean water,
hospitals, security outfits and others – so that the creative energies
of the youth could be fully exploited. Our experiments with
polytechnics, monotechnics and innovative enterprise institutions have
failed; let’s try something fresh. It remains a mystery that,
almost 50 years after Biafra, the southeast remains bereft of technology
hubs. Emeka Ojukwu once recounted: “In the three years of the war,
necessity gave birth to invention. During those three years of heroic
bound, we leapt across the great chasm that separates knowledge from
know-how. We built rockets, and we designed and built our own delivery
systems. We guided our rockets. We guided them far, we guided them
accurately. “For three years, blockaded without hope of import,
we maintained all our vehicles. The state extracted and refined petrol;
individuals refined petrol in their back gardens. We built and
maintained our airports, maintained them under heavy bombardment. “Despite
the heavy bombardment, we recovered so quickly after each raid that we
were able to maintain the record for the busiest airport in the
continent of Africa. “We spoke to the world through telecommunication system engineered by local ingenuity; the world heard us and spoke back to us! “We
built armoured tanks and cars. We modified aircraft from trainer to
fighters, from passenger aircraft to bombers. In the three years of
freedom, we had broken the technological barrier. “In three years we became the most civilised, the most technologically advanced black people on earth.” What
really has happened then?  A poster on WhatsApp comments: “Out of
jealousy and malice, the Biafran research documents were destroyed, and a
nation destined for technological progress chose to stake its life on
foreigners and imported technology and got set on irreversible decline.” Another
commentator identified as Sunday Folayan wrote on Facebook: “Perhaps
Nigeria has not worked because we have failed to recognize the labours
of our true heroes past: The sheer technological ingenuity,
manufacturing sagacity and resilience of a nation within a nation that
thrived on research and development par excellence. A people with swag
too strong to break. ‘“Igbo-made’ was the slogan when I was in
secondary school and the Malaysians were taking our palm seeds. ‘Made in
China’ was the slogan when I became a freshman and we started to import
palm oil. We thought we could build telecommunication switches. Now
that my generation and our unexplored ingenuity is almost wasted owing
to crass ineptitude, our children will probably continue to import
petroleum and telecommunication switches from China – what the blessed
team of Ojukwu engineers worked, not dreamed, should be exported out of
Umuahia. Now we are left with reminiscences.” Ajaokuta Steel
Complex has failed to take off after 45 years. Yet, when the proposal
for that edifice was written in 1973, the consultants recommended that
if Nigeria desired a steel company it should site it in Onitsha. Nigeria
chose Ajaokuta because of “the Igbo problem”. Like many members
of my generation – the generation born before the civil war – I desire
to see Africa’s Silicon Valley in my lifetime. There is no better place
to site such hub than southeast Nigeria, a place brimming with talent,
the birthplace of many intellectuals. I have mentored many young people
bursting with suppressed talent. These skilled individuals want to get
somewhere but don’t know how to actualize their dreams. Those with the
needed funds and political power should kindly provide a platform for
these frustrated but talented individuals to express themselves. •Nwamu, book editor and writer, is also the CEO of Eyeway.ng. +234-8054100220 (SMS/WhatsApp only) 