By George Odok  Ikom (Cross River), Mr Victor Abang, the All Progressive Congress candidate for Ikom/Boki Federal Constituency in Cross River on Sunday pledged to attract genuine investments into the constituency if elected by his people. Abang disclosed this while addressing his supporters at Yala-Nkum ward in Ikom local government area during his campaign rally. He explained that loxal and foreign investors would be attracted to
the constituency’s abundant cocoa, palm oil, banana and plantain which
are the mainstay of the people’s economy. Abang said that incentives would be provided for investors to
establish cottage industries in the communities in order to boost the
economic potential of the peole. “In my desire to represent you at the National Assembly, I want to
promise that I will always organise an annual economic and investment
summit to harness our viable farm produce. “I will bring people from outside to look at our cocoa, oil palm and
banana and see how they can establish small cottage industries to drive
the economy and create an effect. “Since the federal constituency is known for large production of
cocoa, palm oil, plantain and other crops, we must find industries for
our season farmers. “All these things are not easy to do, but I believe that with my
strength, connections and God’s grace, we can achieve them,” he said. He charged the people to come out and vote on February 16, adding
that report should be made to the police of any form of intimidation on
the election day. Prince Eka Williams, the Director General of Victor Abang Reality
Campaign Network, said that the prospect for a better representation
lies in the hands of the electorate. Williams said that Abang understood the politics of the National
Assembly having served three Senate Presidents, assuring that if
elected, Abang would facilitate job opportunities for graduates in the
area. Mr Agbor Ogar, Chapter Chairman of APC in Ikom, said that the people
of Ikom/Boki deserves a better representation through Abang. Ogar, who enlightened the people on the voting pattern, urged
residents in Ikom to thumbprint on the broom symbol on the day of the
election. Mr Odey Ebaye, Youth Leader in the area, who led over 300 youths in a
solidarity walk for Abang, said that youths in the area have endorsed
Abang for the election. He told NAN in an interview that Abang has been consistent in his
community development programmes for his people, adding that such
gesture would continue if Abang is elected. “As you can see, we have no other candidate for the House of
Representatives aside Abang. Our support and loyalty to him is 100 per
cent,” he said. NAN reports that over 20 support groups came out in their numbers during the rally in support of Abang’s ambition.