By Auwalu Yusuf  Sandamu    –     Sandamu Local Government in Katsina state says it has spent N28.9 million on provision of social services in the area.
Alhaji Sani Jarkuka,the council chairman, made this known in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria NAN in Sandamu on Thursday.
Jarkuka said out of the amount N25 million was spent on electrification of the Sandamu Comprehensive Health Center, repair of motorised borehole, rehabilitation of theatre room, procurement and installation of digital X-ray, dental and scanning machines at the health centre.
He said other projects executed at the health facility were the renovation and expansion of maternity ward, supply of laboratory equipment like blood bank, centrifugal machine and test tubes.
He added that the council has also procured 100 additional ultra model hospital beds and mattresses worth N11 million to guarantee the welfare and convenience of patients patronising the health facility.
In a related development the council boss said N2.5million was spent on construction of six additional market stalls at the Sandamu Central Market to expand revenue generation drive of the council.
According to him the council has also spent N1.4 million to complete the building of the Unguwar Shatima Mosque which has the capacity to accommodate 100 worshippers.
The chairman commended the state government for renovating the 76 kilometre Sandamu-Babban Mutum road and construction of the 28 kilometre Fago-Katsayal-Kwasarawa road in the area.
He again lauded the efforts of the state government on general renovation and provision of school furniture at government girls science secondary school Sandamu, stressing “I must further give kudos to Gov. Aminu Masari administration for promoting 370 local government staff to their next grade levels”.
NAN reports that the local council last week received delivery of six sewing and three knitting machines, six cooking pots and soap making chemicals from the state ministry of women affairs for distribution indigent women in the area.