Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former Super Eagles Captain, Nwankwo Kanu, has raised an alarm over the fate of his property, Hardley Apartments, which is now under renovation by The Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria, (AMCON), reports Completesports.com.  Hardley Apartments located at No. 46 Waziri Ibrahim Crescent, Off Elsie Femi – Pearse Crescent, Off Adeola Odeku Street, Victoria Island, Lagos is owned by Kanu, but has been put under the temporary possession of AMCON by an ex parte order of a court on account of indebtedness. According to Kanu, while the case is still awaiting final judgment at the Federal High Court  Lagos on the 31st of January 2019, Hardley Apartments has suddenly been renovated and  wearing a new look when the two-time African Footballer of the Year visited the premises on Monday, January 14. “I was notified that my hotel (Hardley Apartments) is currently under renovation when the case is still in court,” the former Super Eagles captain began in a chat with Completesports.com in front of the premises. “I came here to establish that my property has been taken over while the case is still in court. Ideally, nobody should be allowed into the premises since the matter is still in court, but this is different. “I have served this country for over 16 years winning laurels and this premises housed all my medals which I won during my playing career, the Olympic torch which I carried in honour of the country in 2012, and memorable pictures are all here but I hope they are not all gone. “They should please hand them over to me because my kids will need to see them for posterity.” Kanu further lamented: “For three years this place was  locked up, and that has deprived 528 kids an opportunity to receive good medical health care.  They should not jump the gun nor pre-empt the court verdict.” Kanu  won  UEFA Champions League, three Dutch league titles with Ajax, three FA Cup Winners and two Premier League medals with Arsenal, and two African Player of the Year awards, amongst others. All efforts to reach Jude Nwanzor, AMCON’s spokesperson proved abortive as he did not pick his calls to respond to Kanu’s claims. Source: Complete Sports     