A vote for APC in the coming presidential election won’t be a vote for Buhari; it would be a vote for an evil, greedy, corrupt, provincial, and reactionary cabal made up of Mamman Daura, Abba Kyari, Isa Funtua and their minions who are currently perpetrating a stratospheric theft of the nation’s resources in ways that would make an angel of Abacha. President Buhari is an insentient human vegetable who is barely aware of his own existence. As much I disdain Vice President Osinbajo’s predilection for barefaced lying and annoying rhetorical legerdemain, if he would truly stand in for Buhari while he tends to his irreversibly declining health, I would be comfortable. But Osinbajo is worse than a figurehead VP. The cabal habitually humiliates him to his face and denudes him of any real powers. Every time Buhari handed over power to him when he traveled to London, the Villa always became a tumultuous, feuding house. When former DSS boss Daura instructed his men to invade the National Assembly, Osinbajo was not in on the decision, even though he was the “acting” president. When he inquired why he was not consulted, he was insulted and humiliated by members of the cabal. He fired Daura in exasperation. But the man is practically back. He nominated the current DG and is actually the man who still runs the DSS. Every decision VP Osinbajo took when Buhari was away has been reversed or vitiated upon Buhari’s return. Check the records. This would be worse in a Buhari second term when the cabal no longer needs to pretend in order to earn the goodwill of the Southwest. The dissension between the cabal and the southwest political establishment led by Tinubu and Osinbajo would reach a feverish pitch. A degenerative, vegetative Buhari would be oblivious, and the nation would burn to the ground. You need no oracular powers to know that this would happen. At that point, Tinubu’s minions in the media and civil society organizations would start barking and tarring all northerners with the same brush. I am waiting for them. Save this post somewhere in case Buhari is rigged back to power.