Chimezie Anaso Awka – The Nigeria Union of Pensioners (NUP) Anambra branch has urged Gov. Willie Obiano to pay the 11 months arrears amounting to N490.19 million. Chief Anthony Ugozor, the Chairman of NUP in the state, made this
known at the opening ceremony of the quarterly meeting of the South East
zone of the body in Awka on Friday. Ugozor said the arrears belonged to the 2002/2003 primary school
pensioners, adding that it was approved by the previous administration
in 2014. He said those affected by the arrears should be made to enjoy their due just like others. “Presently, pensioners in Anambra are still enjoying some degree of
comfort for the fact that monthly pensions are still paid as and when
due. “The struggle for a new minimum wage is protracted and challenging;
we wish to encourage the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) to continue in
spite of all odds,’’ Ugozor said. In his goodwill message, Mr Jerry Nnubia, the Chairman of NLC in Anambra, said that the council is on top of the situation. He expressed hope that the state government would make a pronouncement on the issue soon. Nnubia said that pensioners deserve great care in retirement having
spent their productive time and energies in service of the father land. He commended the senior citizens in the South East for defying age,
hardship and distance to come together to brainstorm on issues of common
interest and welfare. “Pensioners deserve the best care in retirement because they
channeled their productive energy to creating wealth for this country,”
he said. In his opening remark, Chief Chukwuma Udensi, the Chairman, South
East zone, said the NUP quarterly meeting was organised to take note of
the challenges of pensioners in the zone. Udensi, who is also the NUP Chairman, Abia decried the nonchalant
attitude of some state governors in the region towards the issue of
pensions and gratuity of members. “We regret the nonchalant attitude of some state governors to payment
of pensions; in some states, outstanding gratuity is up to 20 years
while monthly pensions arrears is up to four years,” he said.