Onitsha – There was tight security in and around Holy Trinity Cathedral in Onitsha, Anambra, open ground venue of the All Progressives Congress (APC) campaign rally by President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday. Combined personnel of the Nigerian Army, Nigerian Police, Navy and
Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps were strategically positioned
from the Azikiwe Roundabout to the Cathedral. The heavily armed security operatives however, did not impede people
from going about their lawful businesses in the commercial city. Vehicles and commuters headed towards the venue were scrutinised to ensure that they posed no danger. Traffic was also heavy in other parts of the commercial city as major
roads like Awka road leading to the venue was cordoned off. Motorists were diverted to roads in Onitsha Inland Town and other arteries. Meanwhile, the stage was almost set for the presidential visit as the
banners and billboards bearing pictures of President Buhari and his
Vice, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo were seen everywhere. Party faithful adorning regalia with insignias of their candidates
and leaders had also started thronging the venue in their numbers as at
the time of filing this report. Petty traders were also making brisk business from the sale of APC caps, shirts and mufflers to party men and women. Handkerchiefs, bottle and sachet as well other drinks were being
exchanged between sellers and buyers as they waited anxiously for the
arrival of the number one and two citizens with their entourage. The president train is expected to visit the Obi of Onitsha’s palace and Ziks Mausoleum before the grand rally at Holy Trinity. It was also a similar situation in Enugu as the Nnamdi Azikiwe
Stadium was filled with party supporters awaiting the visit of the
president and his entourage. NAN reports that major streets leading to the stadium were cordoned as supporter trek long distance before arriving the venue. The roads include Abakaliki Rd, Ogui Rd and the Airport Rd. There was tight security in and around the stadium as people were searched before entering the venue. APC candidates and their supporters stormed the stadium with their
banners and posters chanting solidarity songs while various cultural
groups were seen entertaining supporters at the stadium. Food vendors and other petty traders were not left out as they were seen making brisk businesses around the stadium. NAN reports that President Buhari who arrived Akanu Ibiam
International Airport after warm reception by Gov Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi and
APC chiftains, had left for Anambra aboard a helicopter. The president is expected back to Enugu after his rally in Onitsha.