Awka   –        Dr Victor Oye, National Chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), has said that Nigerians irrespective of political, religious or regional divides must be committed to ensuring peaceful elections. Oye made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Awka on Monday. He said that election was a process in a democracy where the electorate had the opportunity to freely choose a leader they want and not a time for morbid quest for power. He decried the heightening desperation among the political class and their supporters across the country, adding that it was as if the country was going to war. The APGA chairman, who said his party and its candidates for the various elective positions had been busy campaigning, urged the electorate to be discerning in making their choice. “I don’t know why people are overheating the polity; they should focus on their campaigns and not fanning the embers of hate among Nigerians. “APGA is saying that everybody, politician, the masses; the clergy should be united in support of free, fair peaceful election as opposed to violence and bloodletting. “Elections come every four years in our clime, therefore, Nigerians must have unfettered liberty to choose their leaders in order to keep our country united and unbroken after the elections. “We should be ready to allow the wish of the majority of the masses to prevail and if you are not chosen, you wait for another time, it should not be a do-or-die affair,” he said. Oye said that Gen. John Gbor, APGA presidential candidate, remains the best choice for Nigeria and called on all to massively vote for him and all APGA candidates. He reminded Nigerians that their votes were their power and urged them to use it wisely. “People should endeavour to be at the location where they registered as voters so that they can vote on the election days; they should also collect their PVCs. “They should vote wisely, it will be foolish for anybody to sell his or her vote for any amount, they should vote for good leadership. “That is why they should vote for APGA, because APGA stands for good governance,” he said.