It
has become pertinent for me to speak about my ongoing visit to the
United States of America, where I met and I am still meeting with US
administration officials and business leaders. I
travelled to the United States of America because I had a mission and
my mission is to create the right economic atmosphere for American
investments to return to Nigeria at a rate and quantum that we had
before the current Nigerian administration’s policies almost halted the
flow of Foreign Direct Investments to Nigeria. I am in America because Atiku means jobs. My
reason for running for the office of President of Nigeria and even for
going into public service in the first place, is because I believe that
Nigeria has what it takes to be the beacon of hope for the Black Race
and a leading nation of reckoning in the international community. This
has not materialised over the course of the last four years because, as
Chinua Achebe prophetically said in his 1983 book, “the trouble with
Nigeria is the failure of leadership.” The
current Nigerian administration has allowed our relationship with our
long-standing friends and partners to deteriorate and this has had
unfortunate consequences for our economy. Foreign
relations that had been meticulously and delicately built for decades
were allowed to deteriorate because the incumbent administration mistook
their personal interests as the interest of Nigeria and allowed short
term goals to dominate their foreign policies. New
friendships should not be made at the cost of old friendships. It is
not an either-or situation. Right from independence, Nigeria has
nurtured a policy of non-alignment. We borrowed from the Lincoln policy
of malice toward none and charity for all. Sadly, that policy has
suffered major setbacks in the last four years. As
a leader in business, I am cognisant of the fact that both Western and
Oriental nations will be making the transition from fossil fuels to
electric powered vehicles and other green energies over the course of
the next two decades. This means that Nigeria’s oil has a limited shelf
life. To
be forewarned is to be forearmed and we must, as a nation, begin to
make the transition from an oil economy to a modern economy based on
manufacturing and value-added agricultural chain. The
message I took to the United States business community is not a new
message. In my opinion editorial in the British media (Beyond Brexit –
Nigeria wants a new trade deal with Britain), I opined that Brexit is an
opportunity for Nigeria and the United Kingdom to have a Big Ambitious
Free Trade Agreement. It is only common sense. In
2014, the African continent as a whole earned $2.4 billion from coffee
grown in Africa and shipped mainly to Europe. That sounds impressive.
However, one nation alone, Germany, made $3.8 billion from re-exporting
Africa’s coffee in 2014. As
a businessman, I see this and I cannot allow it to continue. It is
unconscionable, but situations like these will not stop unless Nigeria
and Africa have leadership that thinks business instead of aid and
capital instead of loans. Nigeria
has perhaps the highest populations of youths as a segment of the total
population, in the world. Already, we have the unfortunate distinction
of being the world headquarters for extreme poverty. We cannot afford
business as usual. My single-minded focus is to change this dubious
record by transforming Nigeria from a consumer nation to a prosumer
nation (a nation that consumes what it produces). For
this to happen, we need US firms who have divested from Nigeria, to
return. We need Procter and Gamble to reopen their $300 million Nigerian
plant which they shut down last year. We need General Electric to
reverse their $2.7 billion pull out of Nigeria. And
my vision is for trade to go both ways. Nigeria has a lot to offer
America via her creative industry (Nollywood is the world’s third
largest movie industry) and rich mining sectors (Nigeria’s Kaduna state
is rich with gold ore). I am also eager to find a market in the US for
some of the half a million shoes manufactured in Nigeria’s cities of
Kano and Aba everyday. Someone
somewhere said Nigeria’s youth are lazy. I am one of the single largest
employers of Nigeria’s youth and I know that that assertion is false.
My travels in Europe and America is to sell the Nigeria that I know to
the world that does not yet know her. A Nigeria with not just a
hardworking youthful population, but a nation with some of the smartest
working people on earth. A nation that is open for business and a
Nigeria that is much more than oil. And
I am certain that if I am successful in selling this Nigeria to the
world, the world will come to Nigeria for business. That is why I am in
America. Because I believe in JOBS – Jobs, Opportunity, Being United and
Security and it is time Nigeria and all Nigerians finally have the
opportunity to realise their true potential. •Atiku Abubakar is Presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic Party and former Vice President of Nigeria