By Stanley Nwanosike  Enugu –   The Nigerian Army says it has inaugurated four solar-powered water projects in different settlements in Obetitu autonomous community in Mbaise Local Government Area of Imo State. Col. Sagir Musa, Deputy Director of 82 Division of Nigerian Army, said in a statement on Saturday in Enugu that the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.- Gen. Tukur Buratai, was represented by the General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the Division, Maj.-Gen. Abubakar Maikobi, at the inauguration, which was done on Friday. The COAS expressed appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari for providing the resources to the Nigerian Army to carry out its constitutional role. He said that the projects was meant to strengthen the existing civil-military relations and winning the minds of Nigerians towards the positive actions of the Nigerian Army meant to provide security and development in the country. “I want to believe that these water projects will serve the needs of this community and their environs. “I wish to also appeal to us to see the projects as symbol of unity. “Let these projects serve as symbol of peace, unity, tolerance and love to this community and the state at large. “I, therefore, wish to thank the Commander in Chief, President Muhammadu Buhari for providing the resources as well as the minister for defence and Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) for their support,’’ the COAS said. Responding, the Traditional ruler of the Community, Eze Amadi Obo, who received the representative of the COAS to formally inaugurate the projects in his palace, thanked the Nigerian Army for the wonderful gesture. Obo noted that the four solar-powered water projects would solve the shortage of water problem being experienced in the community for decades. “The entire community, which include our children, youths, women and elders are very happy for the project coming from the Nigerian Army,’’ he noted. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that the civil-military relations projects are in line with the COAS vision for the Nigerian Army; while as a deliberate policy, the intervention projects are evenly distributed across the six geo-political zones. Over 95 per cent of the COAS’ Special Intervention Projects have been successfully executed and inaugurated across the six geo-political zones so far. The projects include renovation and construction of primary schools, primary health care centres, medical facilities, donation of farming implements and water projects among others. Maj.-Gen. Maikobi, who represented the COAS, was accompanied by the Chief of Accounts and Budget, Nigerian Army, Maj.- Gen. U.C. Ogulanna to Obetitu autonomous community curved out of Aboh Mbaise municipal community in Mbaise Local Government Area of Imo State.  (NAN)