By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) –  Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has spelled out the voting procedures for the 2109 General Elections. The election umpire disclosed the seven-steps procedure via its verified Twitter handle, @ inecnigeria as follows: Step 1 : Upon arrival at the polling unit, joins the queue and present yourself to the INEC official ( APO111 ) at the polling unit who will determine whether you are at the correct polling unit and check if the photograph on the Permanent Voter Card ( PVC ) matches your face . If satisfied, he/ she will direct you to the next INEC official ( APO1 ). Step 2 : The official ( APO1 ) will request for your PVC to confirm that your card is genuine and your details , using the smart card reader. He/ she will ask you to place your finger on the card reader to confirm that the PVC belongs to you by ascertaining, the card reader will contains the name , photograph and finger prints of all those registered in their polling unit. Step 3 : You will then meet the next official ( APO11 ) who will request for your PVC to confirm that your name and details are in the voters register . Your name will be ticked and your PVC returned to you . He/ she will then apply indelible ink to the cuticle of your appropriate finger for that election to show you have been accredited to vote. ( If your name is not found on the register , you will not be allowed to vote). Step 4 : The presiding officer ( PO ) stamps , signs and endorses the date at the back of the Ballot Paper . The PO will roll the ballot paper inwardly with the printed side inwards and give to you . He / she will then direct you to the voting cubicle where you vote in secret. Step 5 : You will stain your appropriate finger for the election with the ink provided then use your stained finger to mark the space or box provided on the ballot paper for your preferred candidate / party . Roll the marked ballot paper ( in the manner the PO gave to you ). Step 6 : Then leave the voting cubicle and drop the ballot paper in the ballot box in full view of people at the polling unit. Step 7 : You will then leave the polling unit or wait if you so choose in an orderly and peaceful manner to work the process up to declaration of result. The commission also added that the result of each polling unit shall be pasted at the unit and for everyone to see. Sundiata  Post recalls that the United State yesterday expressed concern over two issues it identified as possible factors likely to jeopardise the free, fair and credible conduct of the February general election in the country. These UN said the issues are that of vote buying and non-neautrality of the security agencies. 