By Philip Yatai Kaduna – The Kaduna State Government on Tuesday began a two-day conference to strengthen partnership for accelerated progress in the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the state. The State Planning and Budget Commissioner, Muhammad Abdullahi, said
at the opening of the conference in Kaduna that the conference would
strengthen cooperation and collaboration among critical stakeholders. Abdullahi said: “cooperation and collaboration among civil society,
business, government, NGOs and foundations among others will serve as a
catalyst for an unparalleled sustainable development in the state. “This is why we brought together wide array of all stakeholders drawn
from governments, philanthropists, the private sector, the academia,
civil society, international development partners and the general
public. “The goal is to debate and establish a framework for
multi-stakeholder partnerships around a set of shared goals and targets,
as well as concrete actions for achieving the SDGs in Kaduna State. “This conference will not only generate discussions around Kaduna
State development vision but will equally initiate and strengthen
partnership for effective implementation of the SDGs in the state.’’ He stressed that the conference would also serve as a forum for
sharing some of the global best practices and ideas, and mobilising all
stakeholders around the SDGs agenda in the state. The commissioner added that it would also provide an opportunity to
further sensitise, mobilise and recommit key stakeholders at the state
level, particularly the House of Assembly, local governments and the
private sector to the SDGs. Abdullahi explained that the current administration was bent on
achieving key deliverables and indicators of the SDGs by 2030 to
specifically bring back the sanctity of the state and its populace. He, however, noted that accelerating socioeconomic progress required
tackling persisting poverty, increasing inequality as well as systemic
challenges around climate change and environmental degradation. The commissioner stressed the need to galvanise collaborative efforts
of the international, regional, national and subnational entities and
rally them around development priorities for the state to achieve the
SDGs. According to Abdullahi, the conference will not be a usual talk-shop
that ends in reports and pictures, but will generate concrete decisions
that the state government and its local government areas would fall back
on. Also speaking, Mr Edward Kallon, the United Nation Country
Representative, described the conference as a welcome idea that would
set example for the rest of Nigeria. According to Kallon, inequality persists with people and societies
having been left behind, adding that strong partnership is an
indispensable tool needed to realise the SDGs and ensure that no one is
left behind. “Kaduna State has done a commendable job by localising SDGs with its development plan to ensure successful implementation. “However, funding and institutional capacity has remained a challenge
that must be tackled for the state to make progress and all
stakeholders must be brought on board to commit to the SDGs
implementation,’’ the UN official said. Kallon pledged the UN continued support to Kaduna State to ensure the
desired success in the implementation of the SDGs for the betterment of
all in the state. Mr Abubakar Buba and Hadiza Mu’azu, the Chairman and Chairperson of
Lere and Jaba Local Government Areas of the State respectively,
reiterated local government’s commitment to accelerating the
implementation of the SDGs at local levels.