By Yemi Adeleye Lagos – The Women Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Lagos State, Mrs Jumoke Okoya-Thomas, says women will vote massively for the Governorship candidate of APC in the state, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Okoya-Thomas gave the assurance on Saturday in Lagos in a statement issued by her media officer, Mr Oladipupo Awojobi. According to her, women in the state are already mobilising to give
the governorship candidate and other candidates of the party huge votes
more than ever before, Okoya-Thomas said: “Sanwo-Olu has all it takes to move the state
forward. I am convinced beyond reasonable doubt that he will help build a
greater Lagos. “We must vote for him; we must do our best to bring greater glory to
the state. Our Lagos is our future and all women must come out en masse
to ensure victory for Sanwo-Olu.’’ The women leader said that she had worked with Sanwo-Olu in the past
and that they were from the same local government area, assuring that
the candidate would not disappoint the people. Okoya-Thomas said that she recently held an interactive session with
career women in the state and had been mobilising so many other women
groups to ensure victory for Sanwo-Olu. According to her, women in the state are responsible and I will
ensure that more women are mobilised to support the APC in the coming
elections. Okoya­-Thomas said that the public and private sectors must work together for the development of Lagos by voting Sanwo-Olu. “Our Lagos has changed into a megacity and the economic hub of Nigeria and this brings with it a lot of challenges,” she said. The women leader, however, urged women to engage the government on
issues of significant importance by getting involved in politics. Okoya-Thomas advised women to do their best and work together to
achieve a common purpose, saying that women would also support
themselves. “Let women be the thinker, the intellectual and the prayer warriors.
Let’s influence decisions of the government. Let’s all come together to
make our Lagos greater. “Let us as women leave better legacies for generations yet unborn by voting for Sanwo-Olu,” she said. On her advice to the APC candidate, Okoya-Thomas said: “I am urging Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu to take the inclusion of women seriously’’. (NAN)