By Esenvosa Izah  Lagos   –     The Association of Resident Doctors, Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja, says it will work diligently with the newly appointed Chief Medical Director, Prof. Adetokunbo Fabamwo, to deliver quality healthcare. Its President, Dr Fatai Balogun, made this known in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Lagos. NAN reports that Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State, had on Jan. 3 appointed Fabamwo as LASUTH new chief medical director to take over from Prof. Wale Oke. Balogun said: “Fabamwo is well experienced and will be able to hold the position as CMD efficiently. “Being a father figure, the association believes it will have a smooth relationship with him and ensure that residents in the state get the quality healthcare they need.“ He, however, said that the shortage of resident doctors at the hospital still posed a huge challenge in the delivery of quality healthcare. According to him, only 248 doctors are currently working at the hospital, instead of 420 doctors that the hospital needs to efficiently deliver healthcare. “Also, we have had shortage of House Officers; these are the challenges we have been having and still ongoing. “We believe that the new CMD will go a long way to resolving these issues so that we will be able to work for the benefit of residents in the state,“ he said. Also, the Chairman, Medical Guild, Dr Babjide Saheed, described Fabamwo’s appointment as a well deserved honour. NAN reports that the medical guild is the association of doctors employed by the state government. Saheed also, described Fabamwo as a man of integrity, dedicated and committed to his profession. “When LASUTH was established, Fabamwo made tremendous improvement in the areas of residency programme and welfare of staff of the hospital. “He was the Head of Department, Anyike House and very knowledgeable with vast experience in academic and social life. “He can move the hospital forward, because he is well grounded with the issues and affairs of the institution,“ he said.