By Awayi KujeKaru (Nasarawa State) – Gov. Tanko Al-Makura of Nasarawa State has urged the electorate to shun violence before, during and after the upcoming general elections in the interest of peace and national development. Al-Makura made the call on Saturday in Karu during the state APC governorship campaign. He also urged Nigerians to massively vote for President Muhammadu Buhari and other candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the election. The governor said that Buhari had done a lot towards improving on the lives of Nigerians, hence the need for Nigerians to re-elect him in order to continue enjoy more dividend of democracy. ”You should vote for Buhari, Engr. Abdullahi Sule, the state APC governorship candidate and other APC candidates during the election. ”This is for us to continue to enjoy more dividends of democrascy,” he said. Al-Makura, who said that his government had developed Karu and the state at large by providing necessary infrastructural facilities, calling on the people of the area to support all APC candidates. He urged the people of the state and Nigerians to vote peacefully during and after the election. Sen. Abdullahi Adamu (APC- Nasarawa West) also urged the people to vote for Buhari and all other APC candidates during the election. On his part, the state governorship candidate also urged the people of the state and Nigerians to vote for him and for other APC candidates during the election. Suleiman assured the people that he would give more attention to the development of the area, if given the mandate. Mr Philips Shekwo,bthe state APC Chairmen, urged those who are yet to collect their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) with Independent National Electoral Commission(INEC) to do so immediately. He also canvassed for vote for Buhari and all other APC candidates during the election. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the rally was attended by politicians, including the state deputy governor, Mr Silas Agara, among others. (NAN)