By Olanrewaju Akojede Lagos – Super Eagles Coach, Gernot Rohr on Wednesday said that the door of the team was still open for the team’s ace winger, Victor Moses, but he must show commitment and fight for shirt. Rohr made the comment on the sidelines of the Nigeria Professional
Football League (NPFL) Match Day 4 between MFM FC and Rangers
International FC of Enugu. NAN reports that the Super Eagles gaffer was on the stands to watch out of outstanding players among the NPFL players. On Moses comeback to the team after announcing his premature
retirement after the World Cup in Russia, Rohr said he appreciated Moses
quality as a winger. “Victor Moses is a player with lots of quality but stopped playing
for the National team after the World Cup. We have to respect his
decision not to play again. “if he wants to come back to the team, it is okay but he must show a
lots of motivation, he must show that he is fit to play for the team
because we have other players playing well in his position now. “Moses has to be strong to come back to the team because we have more
options on the wings now like Samuel Kalu, Samuel Chukwueze, Alex Iwobi
and Ahmed Musa. All these players are on his wings. “Victor Moses comeback is a good news for us,” he said. Rohr said that he would present the fittest team in the last match of
the AFCON qualifiers against Seychelles and the friendly match against
Egypt. “We will invite the fittest players for the AFCON qualifiers against
Seychelles and the friendly match against Egypt. The best of them will
play the Match. “With the level at which some of the players are now in their
different clubs, I believe they should turn that form to the national
team. “For the local based players the ones that are good among them will
surely be invited to the team. I regret that the league had a long break
after the last season which affected the fitness of the players. “But now that the league is on, myself and my assistants are here to
watch out for the outstanding ones that can make the team,” he said.
(NAN) 