By Clara Egbogota Lagos, – A former Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Theophilus Danjuma (rtd), says Nigerians are in dire need of  good housing  and transportation system to live a meaningful life. Danjuma said this on Monday at the unveiling of Centenary Logo and
Inauguration of Divine Mandate partners of the Diocese of Lagos at City
Hall, Lagos. He  commended the construction of Centenary City by Lagos Diocese of
Anglican Communion, adding that the low cost estate in Ibeju-Lekki would
help solve the housing problem of the poor and needy in the society. “Among other facilities, I observe that the proposed Centenary City
will have low income housing estate; in fact, that is very good because
housing and transportation are the most important needs for the people. “People wake up so early to go to work in Lagos due to transportation challenges,” he said. He commended leaders of the Diocese especially, the Bishop, Rt. Rev
Humphrey Olumakaiye, for their efforts in ensuring that peace and
progress are achieved among members. Danjuma, therefore, pledged his support for the project, but advised
the Lagos Diocese to ensure that funds for the project were raised and
used judiciously. The Bishop, Lagos Diocese, Rt. Rev Humphrey Olumakaiye, expressed
gratitude to God for the grace he gave to the diocese to attain hundred
years. He said the centenary celebration has wide interesting activities for
the physical and spiritual of the church and Lagos residents at large. “Our mandate for the Diocese is Priestly, Pastoral, Prophetic, Prayer
and Praise Ministries. And we shall exist to glorify God, edify
believers and multiply disciples for our Lord Jesus Christ.” Olumakaiye said that the centenary city would have empowerment and
youth development centre, rehabilitation centre, games village and
sporting centre, convention ground, garden of Gethsemane. “There will also be retreat centre, St. Luke’s Global Hospital, Women
empowerment centre, resorts, amusement park and low income housing
estate. “Our Diocese will continue to impact the society and influence our
nation for good as we pray that the forthcoming election in Nigeria will
be free and credible leaders will be elected. The Chairman of the Centenary Anniversary Committee, Hon Justice
Adedayo Oyebanji, in her welcome address, said that the projects would
be executed in phases, adding that it will commence by the end of 2019. ”The first phase will cost N5 billion, the programmes would run from
January- December 2019. The grand finale of the centenary anniversary
will be on 10th December,” she said. She called on all stakeholders to key into the laudable objective.