Cairo – Egypt’s economy is expected to grow 5.3 per cent in the fiscal year that ends in June, according to forecasts economists polled by Reuters, the same view found in a survey three months ago. The economy, with the exception of the oil sector, has struggled to
attract foreign investors since the 2011 uprising that unseated Hosni
Mubarak. Egypt’s non-oil private-sector activity shrank for a fourth month in
December. Private-sector activity has expanded in only five months over
the last three years. “Medium-term growth remains slightly subdued as the government
maintains a strong grip on the economy, but is nonetheless supported by
an expected expansion in the infrastructure, manufacturing and tourism
sectors,” said Nadene Johnson, an economist at NKC African Economics. Hoping to bolster investor confidence, Egypt has been implementing
tough economic reforms as part of a three-year, $12 billion deal agreed
with the International Monetary Fund in November 2016. The reforms include a value-added tax, cuts to energy subsidies and a steep currency devaluation. The median forecast from 14 economists polled Jan. 8-22 put growth at
5.3 per cent in the current 2018/2019 fiscal year and 5.5 per cent the
following two fiscal years. Egypt had targeted growth at 5.8 per cent in its 2018/2019 fiscal year budget. “Egypt should enjoy a relatively stable pace of growth over the next
couple of years … but the economy will remain strained by ongoing fiscal
consolidation, soft private sector activity and uncertainty in the
global economy,” wrote Maya Senussi, senior economist for the Middle
East at Oxford Economics. “That said, we see greater support from public investment this year,
reinforced by lower oil prices lowering subsidy spending. Consumers also
stand to gain from lower oil prices, while lower interest rates should
generally inject some life into the private sector,” she said. The latest consensus put urban consumer inflation at 15.5 per cent in 2018/2019, up from a previous forecast of 14.9 per cent. “Economists polled expected the rate to fall to 13.1 per cent in the
2019/2020 fiscal year and 10.9 per cent in the 2020/2021 fiscal year. Annual urban consumer price inflation fell to 12.0 per cent in
December from 15.7 per cent in November as monthly food prices dropped. Core inflation, which strips out volatile items such as food, rose to 8.30 per cent in December from 7.94 per cent. Millions of Egyptians live below the poverty line and struggle to
meet basic needs. They have faced rising costs since the pound was
floated in November 2016. “Inflation was revised lower in 2019 thanks to the easing of global
oil prices. However, there are some risks to the outlook including
further tightening of global conditions (particularly U.S. interest rate
tightening); or renewed emerging market turmoil, which could jeopardize
capital inflows and weigh on the value of the pound,” Johnson said.