F By Chibuike Nwauko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – House of Representatives member representing Remo Federal constituency
of Oyo State, Oladipupo Adebutu, has alleged that the Federal Government plans to
devalue the Naira in April. Adebutu made this known while speaking in Abeokuta on at a Town
Hall meeting, organised by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). The meeting,
which had in attendance, party faithful, stakeholders, support and youth
groups, was addressed by the wife of the PDP presidential candidate, Mrs. Titi
Atiku Abubakar. He claimed that
he had privileged information about the currency devaluation plan, which
according to him, will take place in April. He added that
if the devaluation plan sails through, a dollar would be exchanged for N500. Adebutu,
representing Remo Federal constituency, however, argued that the development
would not only subject Nigerians to further hunger and plunged the country into
economic deprivation, but scare away foreign-direct investment into the
country. He said: “I am
privy to the plans by this administration to devalue the Naira in April. This
move will not be in the interest of Nigerians, especially the masses. There’s
is a serious problem ahead and this is the more reason why we should all vote
for Atiku Abubakar as our next president.” He explained
further that apart from the fact that President Muhammadu Buhari’s
administration had stripped the economy of flesh and left it the shell, the
administration has also divided Nigeria more along religion and ethnicity
lines. The federal
lawmaker stressed that the present government had failed to provide an enabling
environment for investors to thrive, which according to him, has led to capital
flight out of the country. While assuring
that Atiku’s government would bring back better times and create jobs for
Nigerian youths, Adebutu, noted the outcome of the forthcoming elections would
go a long way in determining the continued unity of Nigeria. In her address,
Mrs. Atiku Abubakar, promised that her husband’s administration would comprise
40 per cent youths and 30 per cent women if elected into office. She charged the
youths to shun any act of hooliganism before, during and after the elections. “The next
administration under the leadership of Turaki Adamawa, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar,
will empower the nation’s youths and the womenfolk. We must all support him to
be our next president so as to get Nigeria working again. “Atiku is not
new in the job. He has done this before and will do it again. Atiku will liberate
us from these problems confronting us. We should, therefore, troop out on
February 16 and vote for my husband, who has the capacity to make our nation
work again,” she stated. Source: Sun