By Moses Kolo Kafanchan – Jema’a Local Government of Kaduna State on Wednesday undertook a free medical outreach for residents in the council area from its share of allocation from the Paris Club Refund. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the outreach at Gidan Waya, Godogodo Chiefdom of Jema’a local government area was organised in collaboration with Graceland Healthcare Development Foundation. Mr Peter Averik, Chairman of Jema’a Local Government, who flagged off the exercise, said that N15million from the council’s share of the Paris Club refund received from the Federal Government in 2018 was allocated for the programme. Averik said that the outreach was in line with the state government’s commitment to provide quality healthcare service to people in the state, particularly at the grassroots. According to him, the remaing allocation from the Paris Club Refund
will be utilized to provide other social amenities required by people in
the area.
He urged the people to leverage on the opportunity and avail themselves of the free medical care.
Ibrahim Mohammed, Project Manager of Graceland Healthcare Development
Foundation, said the programme was aimed at eradicating diseases and
conditions including, fibroid, appendicitis, goitre, deformed limbs,
hernia and hydrocoele amongst others.
He said no beneficiary is expected to pay any amount for the surgery and
urged the people to cooperate with the medical personnel, assuring them
that no one would be left unattended to.
Also speaking, Malam Musa Bawa, District Head of Godogodo, applauded the
efforts of the government for giving top priority to health care
delivery and urged it to sustain the tempo.
Mr Stephen Ahmadu one of the beneficiaries, who expressed gratitude to
the government over the gesture, told NAN in an interview that he had
suffered from hydrocoele for over five years.
According to him, he could not afford over N50,000 needed for the surgery, therefore the outreach was a welcomed development.
NAN reports that 600 beneficiaries across the local government were targeted for the exercise.