By Ramatu Garba  Kano –   A renowned public opinion poll group, Poll 4 Excellence, Africa (P4EA) with headquarters in Accra, Ghana, conducted an opinion poll on the chances of gubernatorial candidates for 2019 election in Kano state, and scored Gov.Abdullahi Ganduje, with 88 per cent chances of winning the election. This is contained in a letter sent to the governor from Accra, through their Nigerian representative in Abuja, and signed by the Coordinator General of the group, Mr Ephraim Nonso and made available to newsmen in Kano on Monday. The group congratulated Ganduje over the result of the opinion poll, which they said took them some months to reach conclusion. The letter roads, “Congratulations Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje for securing such intimidating percentage in our opinion poll against 2019 general elections, gubernatorial election specifically in your own case. “We are conducting similar polls in three strategic states in Nigeria. And very soon results from other states will be out for the public.” Kano, according to the letter “occupies some specific, highly strategic and unassuming democratic practice and culture, that is why we allocate more time to the state above all the remaining three states, identified. According to the group, members of the public expressed their unalloyed satisfaction with Ganduje’s delivery in all sectors of the state. ” To dismiss any rumor about the expected strength of other opposition parties in the state, the letter reveals that, public opinion suggests that, “Ganduje’s performance in all sectors serves as a shield between him and opposition political tricks. ” People believe that the governor would redouble his efforts when given another chance of four years.” Parts of the criteria used in conducting the opinion poll, the group revealed was how sophisticated political players from all contesting parties were at the heydays of electioneering campaign. On this the letter posits “We learned that the choice of the gubernatorial candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) by the Kwankwasiyya faction of the party spells doom for the group and the party in general.” “When PDP Kwankwasiyya anointed their gubernatorial candidate, many heavyweights from the faction started backsliding. Apart from that aspect, another issue militating against sound opposition from Kwankwasiyya is the fact that. “up to now, the long standing leadership structure of the PDP do not see Kwankwasiyya man as their own. These are all opinions form by the public about Kano 2019,” says the group in the letter. The group observed that the exit of the former governor of the state and former Minister of Education, Malam Ibrahim Shekarau, from the PDP caused serious injury to the party as he defected to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) with his thousands of supporters. Many people that were contacted to get their feelings about the chances of any of the gubernatorial candidates, believe that Salihu Sagir Takai, who was hitherto from Shekarau political family and now the gubernatorial candidate of People’s Redemption Party (PRP), “.is on his own. According to the group, it was because of him (Takai) that some fraction of the then All Nigeria People’s Party (ANPP) loyalists worked against the party’s choice of him to be the gubernatorial candidate and governor under the platform of the ANPP. Shekarau insisted on his candidature. But where is he now? People ask rhetorically,” says the opinion poll result. Result of the opinion poll also revealed that Ganduje’s human relation helps much in getting him the sympathy and support from many elderly population. “So long as you deserve caring, Ganduje will give you that. In fact our investigation shows that governor Ganduje cares for all irrespective of social status and political differences. This is part of the advantage he gets above all other candidates.” “The rain of empowerment programmes across the Kano’s intimidating population gives him another greater advantage. Many people benefited from his empowerment schemes. ” This alone, has the influence to garner massive grassroot support for the governor. It also helps in making supporters of other parties cross carpet to the ruling APC,” says the opinion poll result. Other greater advantages Ganduje has over all other candidates put together, is the chance he has of being so concern about education, agriculture and health, among other areas, as being stated by the letter. Kano state being the strongest political base of President Muhammadu Buhari, “.Ganduje is one of the strongest advocates for Buhari’s re-election in 2019 general elections. “ At the same time Kano people understand this clearly. While other candidates do not have that advantage, this will also help in securing more support for Ganduje in 2019,” the letter said. (NAN)