By Joy Odigie  Benin    –       Gov. Godwin Obaseki of Edo has expressed his administration’s readiness to
collaborate with the National Space Research and Development Agency (NASRDA) to accelerate the state’s technological
innovations and processes. Obaseki said this when he received a proposal from Prof. Babatunde Rabiu, NASRDA’s Chief Executive of Centre for Atmospheric
Research (CAR) at Government House, Benin. The governor said that the state government had invested in technology solutions and relevant institutions which were implementing
the solutions in state civil service. He expressed the hope that the partnership would allow and improve synergy among institutions implementing technological solutions in the state. He said it would be necessary to have a technical partner that would conduct activities so as to have common platform. He added that “if we are to accelerate our development and achieve the goals we set for ourselves as a government, technology is
a ‘sine qua non.’ “The Edo Ministry of Science and Technology will, in this partnership, serve as the anchor. “The state’s Ministry of Education and other institutions of government implementing one form of technology solutions or the other
could also be brought together to be on the same page.” The NASRDA boss said that the proposal was to offer complementary, scientific and technology-based solutions that could enhance
the state’s sustainable development. According to him, the objective of the intervention is to identify and evaluate potential science and technological manpower already
available in the state. He said it would also “harness the unique contributions of the different science and technology bodies for the benefit of the state. “The centre is ready to work with the Edo Government with a view to bringing stakeholders within the state,
communicate contemporary science and technological knowledge and skills to target groups, such as schools and the
organised public sector.” He said it would also engage platforms to train specialised people and groups with the aim of transferring technological
skills that could enhance their competitiveness.