By Rukayat Adeyemi The 39-year-old Lagos State University (LASU), Ojo, known for crises,
agitations, protests and cultism has in the last three years maintained
a peaceful era marked by uninterrupted academic calendar to the
surprise of stakeholders, Lagos residents and Nigerians generally. The journey into the new dawn and era of massive infrastructure
turnaround, academic exploits and staff development began when the
current Vice-Chancellor (V-C), Prof. Olanrewaju Fagbohun was appointed. The Lagos State Governor, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode, had appointed Fagbohun
as LASU’s 8th substantive Vice-Chancellor on Jan. 6, 2016, following
the expiration of the tenure of the former, Prof. John Obafunwa. Fagbohun was inaugurated on Jan. 11, 2016 and assumed office the same day. The professor of Environmental Law, was until his appointment,
Director of Research at the Nigerian Institute of Advanced Legal
Studies, University of Lagos. His appointment also followed the governor’s approval of a five -year
single-term tenure for the vice-chancellor of the state-owned citadel
of learning. Fagbohun stepped into the institution at a period when crisis was the
order of the day, following a rift between the former vice-chancellor,
(Academic) and non-academic staff and also the students unions. The height of the crisis then, was the demand for a reversal in hike
in tuition during the administration of former Gov. Babatunde Fashola
and the “No Vacancy, No Promotion Policy’’ adopted by the former VC. On assumption of duty, Fagbohun preached forgiveness and promised to
rebrand the institution and transform it to meet world class standard
through all inclusive governance. His promises began to manifest within six months into his
administration when the bad roads in the university which the previous
administration had said could not be repaired due to ongoing
construction and presence of heavy duty vehicles in the institution were
rehabilitated. The no vacancy, no promotion policy was also lifted and staff began
to enjoy their promotion when due, while the Fashola’s administration
before handing over reversed the increased tuition from about N195,000
to N25,000. Also, the clearance of backlog of certificates of graduates of the
LASU External System (LASUES) and winding up of LASUES which was
replaced with the Open and Distance Learning Research Institute (ODLRI). All satellite campuses within the state were also scrapped and the programmes relocated to the main campus. The current administration had since continued to enjoy the goodwill
and support of the staff and students unions which has culminated in the
peace and progress enjoyed currently. However, there are lingering issues between the Academic Staff Union
of Universities (ASUU), LASU chapter and the current management which
were still unresolved. The loggerhead between ASUU -LASU and the management erupted
following the dismissal of the union’s erstwhile Chairman and his deputy
in September 2017 over an alleged misconduct. Mr Saheed Oseni, Chairman, Senior Staff Association of Nigerian
Universities (SSANU), LASU chapter, said the university in the last
three years under the current vice-chancellor had witnessed tremendous
improvement in staff welfare, academic and infrastructure development
and redemption of the institution’s image. “The VC has demonstrated unequalled administrative and technical leadership skills in the running of the university. “As a matter of fact, he has performed and achieved this because of
his ability to carry everyone along and give premium to staff and
students welfare coupled with much attention to academic and
infrastructure development, accessibility and a listening ear,’’ he
said. Oseni noted that Fagbohun could still do better to improve the
present lot of the institution by facilitating more residential quarters
for staff, renovation of the existing ones, construction of student
hostels, befitting and well equipped sports center and laboratories. He listed also adequate staff buses, well-furnished office
accommodation regular career training programmes and a holistic review
of contentious cases with a view to addressing each on its merit to calm
all frayed nerves. Dr Tony Dansu, Secretary, ASUU-LASU, said there were several issues
he considered detrimental to the progress of the university, but to the
great credit of its members, the union continued to contribute to its
growth in spite of the situation. “The current administration is three years old. Mathematically, it has 40 percent of its lifespan left. “Our union has continued to be under harassment and threats, for its insistence on due process and transparency. “The secretary, Treasurer and Assistant Secretary were to be
dismissed late last year, but for the decision to approach the courts
and that would have made it five executive members dismissed within one
year. “Attempts are ongoing right now to use the office of the
Vice-Chancellor to illegally hijack the leadership of our union and its
accounts,’’ he alleged. Dansu lamented that it was 10 years since ASUU and the Federal
Government signed the agreement that gave birth to the Earned Academic
Allowances (EAA) and LASU had not paid its lecturers and efforts to
engage the university administration continues to meet resistances. “There are many more issues that we may not be able to identify
immediately and we believe that it is in the interest of the university
that they be addressed. “No system can thrive on injustice, victimisation and arbitrariness.
There must be compliance with the rule of law at all times, when it is
convenient for those in power and when it is not. “ASUU-LASU hopes that the vice-chancellor, for the sake of legacy and
the peace of the university, will realise the futility of trying to
destroy the union for its insistence that things be done right,’’ he
said. According to him, it is only when all stakeholders work together in
openness and sincerity that meaningful progress can take place. Mr Albert Agosu, Chairman, Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational
and Associated Institutions (NASU), LASU Chapter, scored the current
vice-chancellor 70 per cent pass mark and noted that he had tried. “To the best of my knowledge he has tried, it is not as if we have
got everything we want but we are all human beings and anybody that can
score 70 as pass mark, I think has done well. Agosu urged Fagbohun to continue in the way he had chosen and not
listen to sycophants in the system because there are such people in
every system. “Everybody is entitled to his or her opinion and we are not saying
that the vice-chancellor is a perfect being but he has a very good
listening ear and so, it is the way one approaches issues with him that
matters. “I think some of the people who are saying that the current peace we
are enjoying in the university is that of a graveyard, if they could
find a way to address their issues, they will not see things the way
they are seeing it now,’’ he said. Agosu advised the VC to be focused and continue in the way he was
doing and prayed God sees him through in the remaining two years of his
administration. The university’s Spokesman, Mr Ademola Adekoya, while congratulating
the vice-chancellor, said Fagbohun with the support of the state
government had been able to record numerous achievements by adopting the
all-inclusive governance style. Adekoya listed the major achievements of the university’s current
administration as restoration of peace and tranquility, emergence of
LASU as an Africa Centre of Excellence recently, massive rehabilitation
and repair of bad roads leading to a befitting road network and the
light-up LASU project. Also, the constitution of 32 university committees made up of
academic, non-academics and students to see to the running of the
institution’s affairs and respect for the rule of law. He named also the establishment of LASU Directorate of Advancement
(LASUDA), Research Management & Innovation, Quality Assurance Unit,
various Certificate Programmes in Entrepreneurial Studies, resuscitation
of LASU (JUPEB) Programme, establishment of LASU International School
(LASUIS), securing NUC approval for LASU ODLRI academic programmes,
among others. Also, the introduction of a monthly breakfast programme between
management and students union executives, robust and regular staff and
management meetings, good welfare packages, seamless promotion of
teaching and non-teaching staff and sponsorship of more students for
competitions. He added that the administration had provided adequate security that
culminated in the peaceful academic environment and stable academic
calendar. Adekoya said that about 17 Inaugural Lectures had been held between
2016 and now and that two successful Distinguished Lecture Series had
been held. The institution’s spokesman said the progress witnessed also
attracted donations from well-meaning Nigerians such as the 500 seat
capacity lecture theatre recently donated by Aderemi Makanjuola,
Chairman, Caverton Group. A new ICT Centre was donated by Providus, and sports equipment by the Lagos State Ministry of Sports among others. According to him, the vice-chancellor also introduced the LASU
Excellence Award, Long Service Award and the slogan “We are LASU, We are
Proud’’ that has been widely adopted by its stakeholders. In spite of the remarkable achievements, successes, peace and
progress achieved by the current administration, problems bothering on
residential and office accommodation for staff and students hostel need
to be looked into and addressed. There is also need to renovate the Sports Centre and construct a
befitting one and improve on facilities at the University’s Health
Centre. Analysts have scored the current university management 70 per cent
but it must not rest on its oars in order to attain and maintain global
standard.