By Deborah Coker Benin – Mr Patrick Obahiagbon, the Edo South Senatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has advocated “Bottom-Top” approach in the execution of constituency projects by members of the National Assembly. Obahiagbon  said this on Saturday at a joint rally by APC candidates
for Edo South Senatorial District, Ovia Federal Constituency and the
candidates into the State House of Assembly for Ovia South West and
North East at Iguoshodin, near Benin. He said the approach became necessary because most often, projects not needed by the people were executed without consultation. Obahiagbon, stressed that the bottom-top approach would not only
enable the beneficiary communities to be part owners of the projects,
but also see to the execution of projects that had direct impact on
them. He told the people that when elected as the Senator for the zone, he
would adopt the “Bottom-Top” approach to ensure that the people get
projects with direct bearing on their lives. “To me, I think we always dump projects on the people without consulting them on what they want. “We always work on the assumption that the projects we give them are
what they want and this has often turned out to be a great disservice to
them. “When elected, I will work with the people and consult with them in terms of projects needed. “We are not going to use the top-bottom approach again in executing constituency projects,” he said. Mr Dennis Idahosa, candidate for the Ovia Federal Constituency, urged
the people to ensure election of quality representatives to the
National Assembly to improve their lots. Idahosa, who also spoke at the joint rally, said people with
experience in governance and who had proven integrity overtime and with
love for the people should be elected. Idahosa, a former Commissioner in Edo, said the candidates presented
by the APC, possesed the “right ingredient” to make meaningful impact on
the lives of the people. “When you give us your mandate, our constituency and by extension the state will never be the same again. “If voted in, we in NASS and State Assembly will work in synergy with
the Federal, State and Local Governments to ensure growth in all areas
of our lives,” he promised. (NAN)