By Okeoghene Akubuike Abuja – The Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) in partnership with World Bank has sponsored a two-day clinic for the States Universal Basic Education Boards (SUBEBs) officials in the North West to address the Out-Of-School children phenomenon. Mr Ossom Ossom UBEC, Head of Public Relations and Protocol, said on Wednesday in Abuja, that the clinic aimed at enhancing the capacity of SUBEBs to produce efficient, clear and implementable delivery plans. According to him, the clinic had participants drawn from Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Sokoto, Niger and Zamfara states. “The clinic is in pursuit of the attainment of the objectives of Pillar One of the Ministerial Strategic Plan (MSP) that seeks to address the Out-Of-School children phenomenon in Nigeria. “UBEC in partnership with the World Bank has organised a two-day clinic in Kaduna for SUBEBs in the North West geo-political zone. “This is with a view to enhancing their capacity to produce efficient, clear and implementable delivery plans capable of achieving Better Education Service Delivery for All (BESDA) development objectives. “BESDA is a World Bank supported initiative which targets states with the largest population of out of school children in the country. “BESDA seeks to support designated federal and state agencies with the specific objective of increasing equitable access to education for Out-Of-School children, improving literacy in focus states, and strengthening accountability for results through system strengthening,” Ossom said in a statement. He said the BESDA Project for Results (PfR) was hinged on an evidence-based mechanism which rewarded states that had proven indicators of having attracted Out-Of-School children back to school. He added that the project was aimed at ensuring that the Out-Of-School children were retained and could demonstrate significant levels of learning achievements. According to him, the Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, highlighted efforts made by the present administration in addressing the Out-Of-School challenge, which he described as very rampant in the target BESDA states. Ossom said Adamu, who was represented at the clinic by Hajiya Buba Haruna, the BESDA Focal Officer in the ministry, expressed delight over the renewed drive to empower states and other collaborating partners in providing indigenous interventions. “These interventions could encourage all school aged children to access and utilise available basic education opportunities in the country,” said Adamu.