By Muhammad Nasir Bello  Sokoto   –       The Sokoto State Government on Friday disbursed N20.7 million as Zakkat for medical assistance to the needy through various hospitals and pharmaceutical shops in the state. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that disbursement of the sum done by the Sokoto State Zakkat and Endowment Commission (SOZECOM), will cater for medical needs of the beneficiaries for three months. Malam Lawal Maidoki, the Chairman of the commission, while disbursing the money in Sokoto said the assistance was to support the needy who could not afford cost of medication. “As usual we are today disbursing N20.7 million through our various hospitals and pharmaceutical shops to represent three month medical support to assist the needy. “This to represent the months of August, September and October 2018 payment amounting to N6.9 million, N5.9 million and N7.9 million respectively. “The state government is always committed and will continue to remain committed in ensuring a good health for all residents. “Therefore, I urged our partners hospitals and pharmaceutical shops to remain committed in ensuring proper utilisation of the funds allocated to them,” he said. Maidoki, however, called on wealthy individuals in the state to continue to support the efforts of the state government towards assisting the less privileged in the society. He commended the hospitals and pharmaceutical shops for their support and dedication in ensuring the success of the programme. The chairman further commended Gov. Aminu Tambuwal for his dedication in sustaining the programme as inherited from the past administrations in the state. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the benefiting hospitals include- Kware Psychiatric Hospital, Usman Danfodio University Teaching Hospital (UDUTH) and Specialist Hospital, Sokoto. Others are- Wamakko Orthopedic Hospital, Maryam Abacha Hospital and Iman Hospital, while the pharmaceutical shops are Binji Pharmacy, Zumunci Pharmacy, Rauda Pharmacy and Maigobir Pharmacy among others.