By Suleiman Shehu Ibadan – The Oyo State Police Command has pledged  to deal with politicians or individuals who engage in any form of violence before, during and after the forthcoming elections. The state’ Commissioner of Police, Mr Abiodun Odude, said this on
Thursday in Ibadan during a stakeholders meeting and signing of peace
accord by party leaders and their candidates. “It is either the politicians or their supporters participate
 peacefully in the election and play by the rules or be put behind bars
 because the command would not give any chance for those who want to
cause violence,’’ Odude said. He also warned politicians carrying arm to desist from the act,
saying the command would deal with anyone caught no matter how highly
placed. Odude  noted that the law banning proliferation of illegal arms was still in force. He decried the recent activities of some overzealous party supporters
whose actions and  utterances were capable of threatening free, fair
and credible elections in the state. “Recently, the command has been inundated with petitions by some
aggrieved party loyalists who complained that their posters and bill
boards were maliciously defaced or destroyed by unknown agents of
opposition parties. “Some political parties have begun to make inflammatory remarks and hate speeches aimed at denigrating their opponents. “I call on all party  leaders, candidates and their supporters to
exhibit high sense of responsibility  and decorum and play the game
according to the rules, especially at  campaign rallies. “We expect politicians,  especially candidates,  to warn their supporters against engaging in embarrassing acts,” Odude said. The commissioner  said the command would not fold its arms while some
disgruntled and anti-democratic elements set the state on fire. Also speaking, Mr Mutiu Agboke, the Resident Electoral Commissioner
(REC) in Oyo State, assured politicians that the commission would not
connive with anybody to win or lose  election. Agboke urged politicians to do what was right, saying votes would count in the elections. The representatives of political parties signed the peace accord and
promised to support the security agencies in  ensuring peaceful
elections. (NAN)