By Wandoo Sombo Abuja – A High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) on Wednesday, warned parties in suit over a House of Representatives seat against acts that could delay hearing of the matter. The Judge, Justice Valentine Ashi, gave the warning at a resumed
hearing in the case, saying that the court would not tolerate any act
that may delay proceedings in the case. He particularly advised against unnecessary application for
adjournments and slow in serving of court process, and therefore, urged
the parties to work toward expeditious hearing of the suit. In the suit, Mr Nelson Arum and his political party, All Progressives
Congress (APC), are asking the court to nullify the election of
Chukwuegbo Gregory as member of House of Representatives. ‎The plaintiffs alleged that the legislator, who represents Enugu
North and Enugu South Constituency, did not possess necessary
educational qualification for election into the lower chamber of the
National Assembly. They alleged that the lawmaker, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)
member, did not have a First School Leaving Certificate and did not sit
for the General Certificate of Education (GCE) qualifying examination as
claimed. According to them, Gregory did not have any GCE qualifying him for
the award of a degree by Enugu State University of Science and
Technology. ‎They, therefore, contended that the lawmaker did not possess the
requisite constitutional qualification to have contested and won the
election in 2015. The plaintiffs averred that the School Leaving Certificate and
Testimonial No 00287 issued to Gregory by the College of Immaculate
Conception, Enugu, in December, 2002 was not an equivalent of secondary
school leaving certificate. They prayed the court to nullify the election of the lawmaker into the green chamber in 2015. They also urged the court to order Independent National Electoral
Commission (1st defendant) to expunge his name from the list of
contestants in upcoming general election for the Enugu North/Enugu South
Federal Constituency seat. The plaintiffs also prayed the court for an order directing the
lawmaker to within 30 days of the judgment, refund all salaries and
allowances, entitlements and emoluments which had accrued to him while
he was in the house. The judge adjourned the matter until Jan. 29, and directed that
hearing notices and other processes should be served on all parties
before the date. (NAN)