By Ahmed Ubandoma Abuja –  The wife of the president Mrs Aisha Buhari, has called on parents to inculcate good morals on their children to ensure a better future for the Nigerian Children.
Buhari said this on Tuesday while hosting children`s party to usher-in 2019 at the Banquet Hall of the Presidential Villa in Abuja.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event was organised by the Aisha Buhari Foundation (ABF) for children from Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camp in the FCT.
The wife of the President who was represented by the former Deputy Governor of Plateau State Mrs Pauline Tallen, said, the event signifies motherly love and care that Buhari has for the less privilege children.
She called on parents to always educate their children on ethical values and urged the children to concentrate on their studies.
“Parents must have time for their children and every one of us has a responsibility to care for children that lost their parents.
“ As you can see, majority of the children came from orphanage homes and IDP camps because Buhari wants them to feel among and have opportunity to celebrate with other children.
“ I assure you that this gathering signifies love and hope for future.
“ As a mother, I always emphasise that, a child belongs to all in terms of showing love especially those in the IDPs Camps and orphanage homes,’’ she said.
She therefore appealed to wealthy individuals to invest for the betterment of the future of Nigerian children.
On her part, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Administration Dr Hajo Sani, prayed for peaceful coexistence among Nigerians irrespective of religious and ethnic background. Some of the Children who spoke expressed gratitude to the wife of the president for the party.
Faith Noah, expressed her happiness to the Buhari for the event and urged her to sustained the gesture.
According to faith, the event will continue to foster love and unity among Nigerian children.
Ola David also expressed her appreciation to the wife of the president for the party and prayed to almighty God to bless the first family with good health.
The event also featured children’s fun fare and presentation of gifts by the Aisha Buhari Foundation and Future Assured programme.(NAN)