… As Tope Fasua Says Buhari is Working Towards A Pre-determinedGoal By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) -Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Chief Olisa Agbakoba, has described President Muhammadu Buhari’s removal of Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen as a grave insult to Nigeria. He condemned the brazen disregard of the constitution and resort to illegally suspending the Chief Justice of the Federation. Agbakoba, who spoke to Sundiata Post correspondent of phone, said, “I am very angry about it as a Nigerian, as a lawyer and as a senior advocate of Nigeria. It is a very grave insult on Nigeria that the president brazenly, unwantonly disregards our constitution by illegally suspending the CJN when he knows he has no powers to do so. He continued: “I know he is pretending to be acting under the so-called ex-parte order obtained by the government from the CCT. I think the CCT is being deceitful because the same CCT only the other day adjourned the entire case to enable Onnoghen’s defence counsel prove that CCT has no power to try the case. “So, how the CCT has turned around, two days after and taken the government side and exclude the CJN side and then issue an order to suspend the CJN. So there is something going on here, something fishy is going on here.” According to him, the “CCT is working hand in glove with the president and you know or if you don’t know I will let you know that the CCT is supervised by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF). So contrary to what Nigerians believe, CCT is not really a court, it is merely an administrative tribunal charged with the role of dealing with asset declaration, and it is not a criminal court. And that is why it is easy for the government to manipulate the CCT to get what they want. “CCT is not an independent court like say the high court where the Judge is independent and can do things on his own. So what has happened in short is a very disgraceful conduct on the part of the President. And I am very shocked that he has been misled by his advisers with election that is coming just three weeks away.” Agbakoba, therefore, wondered how  President Muhammadu Buhari would be trusted for another term in office if he cannot obey the constitution. He said,  “If the President can disregard our constitution, what confidence do we have in giving him another four years. How can I vote for a man who disgracefully disobeys our constitution without care? So to me as a person speaking as Olisa Agbakoba whatever little respect I have for Mr President is gone, I have no respect for him – anyone who does not respect the rule of law and democracy will not enjoy my respect.  So hopefully, the attempt by the president to suspend the CJN will be resisted strongly by the judiciary and the Bar Association. Let’s hope to see how things will play out in the next one week.” Similarly, the presidential candidate of the Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP) Tope Kolade Fasua has said that the removal of the Chief Justice Of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen is a clear indication that Buhari is working towards a premeditated goal. Fasua said the president wants to get rid of the CJN at all cost else he would have waited for the judicial process which has commenced to take its course. According to the ANRP presidential candidate, President Buhari should have disguised his intentions and allow the judicial process to go full hug rather than suspending the top most judicial officer of the land in the manner he did regardless of how much is alleged to have passed through or seen in his account. When asked the legal implication of the action of the President, Tope Fasua said that the days ahead would unfold the implication of the action of the action of the Mr President. He said Buhari might get away with it because he is the president of the country today. However, he said that what should be probed is if actually it was the president that took that decision. In his words,