By Constance Imasuen Abuja – Mr Muhammad Jiya, the Senior Manager, Innovations and Development Department, Nigerian Communications Satellite Limited (NIGCOMSAT) has emphasised the need for small business owners to move from offline to online operations, using digital skills. Jiya said this on Saturday in Abuja at the Business to Business (B2B) Nigeria 4th National Dialogue with the theme: “Digitilising Nigeria’s Small Medium Enterprises (SMEs) Space for Profitability.” He said digitisation was transforming everything, from markets and whole societies to the environment and individuals. He added that “it is a paradigm where computing resources are
available when needed, and you pay for their use the same way as for
household utilities.” According to him, business in Nigeria is still experiencing slow
growth due to manual ways of operation that is devoid of digital and
advanced processes. “It is high time, therefore, we move from offline to online which may
be disruptive to some SMEs, but it paves the way for SMEs to create
their own destiny,” he said. The NIGCOMSAT official listed some free online services which SMEs
could use to move their businesses to the digital world to include
Microsoft, Google, Apache Desktop Openoffice. He also listed NIGCOMSAT services that could be useful to SMEs to
include  Transponder Leasing, Broadband  Services, Broadcasting/Direct
to Home, Navigation Services, Telemedince/E-Health, Others are E-Commerce and E-Government solutions, Urban and Regional Planningsolutions and Software and Hardware Solutions. He urged SMEs to talk to their peers in other small businesses or
collaborate with someone who could transfer and share with him/her both
the particular technology and the digital skills needed for
digitisation. “SMEs should establish a culture of innovation: Digitization is
becoming increasingly important in the search for more efficient
solutions and constant improvement. “SMEs interested in digitisation should exploit collaboration with IT
specialised SMEs in their community, build strong network of business
partners to exchange skills and resources.” Suggesting ways government could stimulate digitisation of SMEs, he
said agencies like Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency
(SMEDAN) should organise regular workshops on ComputerAppreciation and
Digitisation processes. He also suggested that government should do more to make electricity
and other infrastructure needed for digitisation of SMEs available and
affordable. He said “I want government to make loan facilities available to entrepreneurs/would-be entrepreneurs (SMEs Operators). “In addition, government should approve two additional Communications Satellite for NIGCOMSAT for Nigerian SMEs to enjoy affordable and High Speed Broadband Internet Connectivity, irrespective of their locations in the country.” (NAN)