By Okeoghene Akubuike Abuja – The Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) has organised a two-day workshop in Abuja, focused on provision and use of instructional materials in UBE schools. Mr Ossom Ossom UBEC, Head of Public Relations and Protocol, said on
Friday that the workshop was for Directors and Desk Officers in charge
of instructional materials in the 36 State Universal Basic Education
Boards (SUBEBs) and FCT UBEB. Ossom said the UBE Act, 2004 mandated UBEC to provide free
instructional materials to learners in the basic education sub-sector. According to him, in executing this mandate, UBEC utilises the
approved 15 per cent of the 2 per cent of the UBE intervention funds in
providing diverse instructional materials to public schools. He said UBEC in partnership with SUBEBs commenced the provision and
distribution of instructional materials through various mechanisms to
end users at the school level since 2009. Ossom said 120,622,776 textbooks, library resources, Early Childhood
Development (ECD) materials and teaching aides had been supplied to
public schools nationwide as at 2016. According to him, the Federal Government through UBEC was seeking to
attain a 1:1 pupil/textbook ratio in all public schools within the
shortest possible time. He said Core subjects; Mathematics, Basic Science, English Language,
Social Studies, Library Resource and ECD materials and teaching aids
were among the prime considerations in the instructional materials
intervention. “In spite of successes attained through this noble intervention,
various challenges have been encountered especially in the distribution
and utilisation of such materials provided by the Federal Government. “In the bid to address the notable constraints and chart a way
forward for improved outcomes, UBEC has convened a 2-day meeting in
Kaduna for Directors and Desk Officers in charge of instructional
materials in the 36 SUBEBs and FCT UBEB. “The meeting is part of UBEC’s strategic engagements with key
stakeholders in the instructional materials intervention with the view
to attaining the objectives of providing quality and free instructional
materials in the basic education sub-sector.” He said a major activity of the meeting was the consideration of the
Report of the Assessment of the Availability and Utilisation of
Instructional Materials in the 36 States and FCT. Other activities included findings from ICPC’s Monitoring Reports on
the provision of instructional materials across the country, as well as
appraisal by participants of the newly introduced Book Policy for the
procurements and supply of instructional materials under the UBE
Programme. Ossom said Dr Hamid Bobboyi, Executive Secretary, UBEC, harped on the
need for proper planning and improved synergy among stakeholders. He said Bobboyi, represented by Director Academic Services, Malam
Wadatau Madawaki, said the synergy would improve the modalities of
instructional materials provision, availability and utilisation in
schools. According to him, the meeting also had in attendance officials of
Nigeria Educational Research Development Commission and UBEC Zonal
Directors from the six geo-political zones.