By Christian Njoku/George Odok  Calabar,    –      The All Progressive Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Cross River, Sen. John Owan-Enoh, has called for tolerance among political staekholders in the state to ensure free, fair and credible elections. The candidate, who disclosed this on Wednesdy in Calabar, was speaking against the bakground of the destruction of his campaign billboards in the state. Owan-Enoh said the intimidation of any party would create an atmosphere of persecution and indicates intolerance of opposition views in the state. He said that the 2019 general elections would be different because of the dynamics of the country and the change brought about by the APC-led government at the center. Owan-Enoh, who currently represents Cross River Central Senatorial District in the National Assembly, said the 2019 elections would be keenly contested. According to him, the APC has candidates in all the positions in the state, adding that the objective is to sweep the polls in the state. “2019 election is about Cross River and not about the North, South or Central. It is about who has a blue print and who can be trusted with the resources of the state and can change the narrative of the people of the state. “When former Gov. Liyel Imoke handed over power, Cross River was the 11 most economically viable state, today we are 36 in Nigeria. “Are we to keep quiet while money meant for the development of the state is misused? “Today, I take the challenge to restore the hope of the people of Cross River, the change that will happen in the state is unstoppable,” he said. Having collected the APC flag for the state, Owan-Enoh called on those who were disgruntled in the party to sheath their swords and work together because Cross River residents expected them to win. Also speaking, the Acting Chairman of APC in Cross River, Mr John Ochala, said the role of the press was critical because they were the eyes and ears of the people. Ochala urged the press to be professional in discharging their duties and encouraged them to feel free to contact the party whenever in doubt.