By Chijioke Okoronkwo Abuja – The  Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association on Nigeria (MACBAN) has formally endorsed President Muhammadu Buhari for the 2019 presidential election. Secretary of the group, Alhaji Mohammed Kiruwa,  spoke with State
House Correspondents after a closed meeting with President Muhammadu
Buhari  at the Presidential Villa, Abuja on Friday. Kiruwa said the visit was to present certificate of endorsement to Buhari. He said it was a follow up to the association’s last congress on Dec.
27, 2018, where all members converged and endorsed Buhari the Next
Level. “W are here today to formally present him with a plaque and a
certificate symbolising the support of over 20 million of our members
across the country. “First of all for his disposition as a person; for his honesty,
transparency and commitment and secondly for the desire and effort he
has in reviving the entire livestock sub-sector after a long period of
neglect. Thirdly, for his anti-corruption crusade and infrastructure development in the country. “Fourthly, for creating employment through skill acquisition;
empowerment and other social investment programme embarked by this
administration. These are some of things we considered.’’ He said that both Atiku Abubakar and Buhari were both of the Fulani nationality but Abubakar did not deserve MCBAN’s support. Kiruwa said that Abubakar had a 16 year two terms as vice president
of the country but there is nothing put in place to change the condition
of pastoralists in the country. He said that throughout that period, the sub-sector suffered the
worst neglect ever as the grazing reserves were allowed to taken over by
farmers. “They allowed the infrastructure in the reserves to dilapidate; the
reserves were not maintained; so, we have a period of neglect; it is now
we are beginning to see light at the end of the tunnel. “And we know what Buhari did when he was at Petroleum Trust Fund
(PTF); he has a lot passion towards the development of this sub-sector;
we have seen what he is trying to do to revive the entire livestock
sub-sector.’’ He said that leadership of the association had been going round
creating understanding between farmers and herders in the country. “Just last week, we were in Ondo State; we try to create peace; we try to create understanding between farmers and pastoralists. “And I am sure you must agree with me that this crisis is more politicised than what is actually taking place. “Immediately Atiku became the candidate of PDP, you will agree with that the crisis has gone down drastically; this is to show that it is more of propaganda,’’ he said (NAN)