By Henry Oladele Lagos, – The Nigerian Army in Lagos says it will sanction any personnel found culpable of committing any electoral malpractice during the coming General Elections. The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai disclosed this
during his visit to the Nigerian Army Corps Signals in Lagos to
inaugurate some buildings while also attending the corps’ reunion party
which ended late on Saturday. Buratai, represented by the Chief of Logistics, Maj.-Gen. Enobong
Udoh, said all personnel must remain professional and apolitical during
the coming General Elections. “All officers and soldiers must remain apolitical and exhibit exceptional professionalism in the forthcoming tasks. “You must report any unwholesome activities up the chain of command once it is beyond your powers of command. “The full weight of the Armed Forces Act will be visited on any
personnel found culpable of committing any electoral malpractice.” He said that the Nigerian Army would continue to provide military aid
to civilian authorities to guarantee security of the nation. “We will support the Independent Electoral Commission, the Nigerian
Police and other security agencies in concluding a successful
election.’’ While inauguration the new quarters for officers and senior
non-commissioned officers, Buratai said he remained committed to
providing infrastructure to motivate personnel. “This is a further validation of my vision of providing the necessary
resources and infrastructure to motivate Nigerian Army personnel in the
discharge of their professional duties. “As you are aware, the Nigerian Army and indeed the nation is beset
by a plethora of security challenges that have tasked our resources,
ingenuity and resilience. “Despite these, the welfare of troops remains priority in all my considerations and actions. “My conviction is that a well motivated force, even with scare resources, can vanquish any external or internal foe.’’ He pledged to undertake infrastructure projects in all army barracks
to enhance the working and living conditions of officers and men. “For the officers and soldiers that would occupy these new blocks,
you are enjoined to maintain these properties as you would your personal
property. “You must maintain the highest standard of general hygiene and the internal and external aesthetic of these buildings.’’ The COAS commended all the officers and soldiers of Nigerian Army
Signals for their excellent professionalism in providing reliable and
robust communication support to ongoing Nigerian Army operations,
particularly, Operation LAFIYA DOLE. “Your static and mobile communication platforms have greatly served
as force multipliers in our operations against the various terrorist and
criminal threats facing the country. “It has also facilitated my command and control of the entire Nigerian Army. “For the first time in the history of the Nigerian Army operations,
the usual recourse to blame communications support for unsuccessful
operations is no longer tenable.’’ Buratai thanked the President and Commander in Chief of the Armed
Forces, President Muhammadu Buhari for his unrelenting support to the
army and belief in its capability to defeat all aggressions against the
nation. Earlier, the Commander, Nigerian Army Signals, Maj.-Gen. Clement
Olukoju, said that the newly constructed six blocks of flats consisted
of two blocks for officers and four for senior non-commissioned
officers. “The two officers’ blocks have a total of 16 one-bedroom flat while
those for senior non-commissioned officers consist of 40, two-bedroom
flats,’’ Olukoju said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the corps also had its West African Social Activities (WASA) and reunion party. The event was attended by retired and serving military senior
officers, including the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Gabriel Olonisakin.