By Chiazo Ogbolu Lagos – The Nigerian Institute of Food Science and Technology (NIFST) has called for implementation of food safety standards to enhance product acceptability in the international markets. The President of NIFST, Mr Wole Toye, made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos on Friday. According to him, not only will it enhance acceptability of foods in
the international markets but it will also lead to producing foods that
are nutritious, wholesome and safe to consume locally. “Now that the country is trying to become self-sufficient in some
food products, we need to do things right so that we will achieve our
goal. “We have witnessed our food products like beans and others being
banned by the U.S., and this has to do with standards that we are
talking about. “This is the time to ensure that we implement the international food
safety standards so that our produce will be acceptable in the
international markets and help create wealth for the country, ’’ he
said. Toye said that to ensure that food fabricators locally abide by the
standards, there was the need to look into the activities, most
especially of the Small and Medium Enterprises that are into food
processing. He noted that the institute would be embarking on an awareness
campaign to highlight the relevance of adopting international standards
in food processing. The NIFST president said that the most critical area of the
institute’s focus was on operators of street foods, saying that there
would be partnership with stakeholders to ensure this goes smoothly. He listed the stakeholders to be the National Agency for Food and
Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Standards Organisation of
Nigeria (SON), Local government and the Nigerian Police. “This year, we will ensure that we do more with SMEs, local
fabricators that are into food processing as they are another
cornerstones. “Since most of the street food vendors are informal, we need to take
the campaign to them and explain why they need to pay attention to food
safety no matter how small they think the food they are preparing is. “These street vendors are areas that are prone to food contamination.
We are lucky in the country that we have never had any case of outbreak
of food borne disease but we should not wait, the time is now, ‘’ he
said. Toye said that in creating the awareness, the institute would be
using people called street food safety professionals among our members. He urged the media to also partner with the institute to ensure the right dissemination of information. Toye said that before now it had been a little bit difficult for
them, as the institute was run solely on annual dues from members.