By Sandra Umeh Lagos – The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on Wednesday recalled its first witness before a Federal High Court, Lagos, in the  trial of a former Executive Secretary of the National Health Insurance Scheme, Femi Thomas, charged with 2.2 milion dollars fraud. The EFCC had applied to recall the witness before Justice Ayokunle
Faji, through a motion, following a third amendment to the charge. Thomas was re-arraigned on Jan. 17, alongside a bureau de change
operator, Kabiru Sidi, on an amended seven-count charge bordering on
money laundering. They were alleged to have carried out cash transactions to the tune
of 2.2 million dollars without going through any financial institution,
contrary to legal provisions. They,  however, had pleaded not guilty to the charge, and were allowed to continue with bail earlier granted them. On Wednesday, the Prosecutor, Mr Ekene Iheanacho, informed the court
of a motion seeking to recall the first prosecution witness, Mr John
Bamidele, who had testified before the court. He argued that by the provisions of Sections 219 of the
Administration  of Criminal Justice Act, the court could allow recall of
a witness  even where trial had commenced, in as much  as there was an
amended charge. In his ruling, the court found the prosecution’s application meritorious, and granted it. The witness, led in evidence by the prosecutor, testified that he had
earlier told the court that he bought dollars for the first defendant
(Thomas). He also testified that  he had told the court that  2.1 million
dollars he carried  to Abuja was given to him so as to give the first
defendant the Naira equivalent, The witness equally said he had testified that  he  agreed to buy a
dollar for  N227, bringing the total Naira equivalent to N498, 9
million. When the prosecution sought to ask the witness the nature of the
transaction, and his relationship with the first accused, the defence
objected on the grounds that those facts had already been dealt with in
the witness’s earlier evidence. The court sustained the objection. The prosecutor then asked the witness if the money handed to him was for charity. “No,” he replied. The court adjourned the trial until Feb. 20. The EFCC accused the duo of committing the offences on July 15, 2015. The anti-graft agency alleged that the accused conspired to make cash
payments of  2.2 million dollars to one Bamidele without going through
any financial institution. The second accused was alleged  to have lied to an operative of the EFCC that he was the owner of the money. According to the prosecution, the offences contravene the Sections 1 (a) , 18(2)(b) and 39(2)(b) of the EFCC Act, 2004. (NAN)