By  Usman Aliyu Ilorin, – Abdullahi Haliru-Danbaba, the Kwara House of Assembly candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for Kaiama/Kenmaji/Wajibe Constituency, says the  North Senatorial District will vote for President Muhammadu Buhari and other APC candidates in the general elections. Haliru-Danbaba told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in
Ilorin that the senatorial district had been in alliance with the
political dynasty of  Senate President Bukola Saraki for years without
any tangible  development to show for it. He explained that inspite of  the allegiance  to the Sarakis for
years, Kwara North had suffered perennial neglect in terms  of
infrastructure and human capital development. NAN reports that Haliru-Danbaba was a Special Assistant on
Non-Governmental Affairs to Gov. Abdulfatah Ahmed before he resigned to
join the APC. He said: “We have been persistently in Saraki’s  political dynasty. “ With the critical appraisal of our allegiance to the dynasty, we
got to realise that there is nothing tangible to show to the people of
Kaiama Local Government and others as a result of our loyalty and
allegiance to that dynasty. “So, our people unanimously asked me to resign my appointment on
Non-Governmental Affairs to Gov. Abdulfatah Ahmed and come back home and
contest. “On getting home, I was endorsed to be the candidate of APC for  Kaiama/Kenmaji/Wajibe State Constituency. “Perennially, we suffer neglect in terms  of infrastructure, human capital development. “ We have not been adequately taken care of and we felt we should not
go with him and that prompted my ambition to go to the state House of
Assembly to contribute to Kaiama’s  development and indeed  Kwara
State.’’ He told NAN that he was optimistic that the agitations and yearnings
of his people would be met under an APC government at  the state and
federal levels. This, he said, had been demonstrated with the recent approval by the
Federal Executive Council of the construction of  the New
Bussa-Wawa-Kaiama road project worth  N23.8 billion. “It is a well known fact that the APC agenda and manifestoes are
anchored on three major things – fighting corruption, revamping the
economy  and ensuring internal security. “I believe if these can go down  now to the state  and local
government levels, we will get the much  desired dividend of democracy
by the special grace of Allah,’’ he said. Haliru-Danbaba condemned his former principal  for lack of commitment
to the construction of Kishi-Kaiama road which he said was started in
2014 inspite of  reimbursement from the Federal Government. “Despite the whopping sum of over N1 billion released to the state
government, the job done was  not commensurate with the money released “Even if the contract is N100 million per kilometre, by now we should
talking of getting to Gate community and that is about 12 kilometres
from Kaiama. “But there is nothing to write home about the job presently. “The quality of job is also poor because it is surface dressing and we are in the 21st
century. I doubt whether there is anywhere in this country where
surface dressing is done by any state or Federal Government,’’ he said. Haliru-Danbaba, who disclosed  that contractor had since abandoned
the site, urged the Federal Government to heed the people’s  call and
take over the construction from the state government being a federal
road. He also  promised to showcase the potentials of the area as a  food
basket of the country while highlighting its  challenges with a view to
addressing them. The APC flagbearer  identified the challenges to include  lack of
good roads as well as primary health facilities and potable water. He gave an assurance  that Kwara North Senatorial District  would
deliver 90 per cent of the votes to the president and all APC candidates
in the general elections.