By Douglas Okoro
Abakaliki, Jan. 2, 2019 (NAN) A Rights Group, Advocacy for Political Equality in Nigeria (APEN) has decried allegations of marginalisation of Mrs Maria Nwachi, legislator representing Afikpo North-East State Constituency in the Ebonyi House of Assembly. The group made this known in a statement issued in Abakaliki on Wednesday by its South-East Zonal Vice Chairman, Mrs Veronica Okwuru. The group alleged that the lawmaker had been unduly suspended indefinitely three times at various times. APEN, a rights group committed to promoting the rights of women, condemned the alleged maltreatment and marginalisation of Nwachi. “We view these seemingly acts of infractions on the rights of the female lawmaker as intimidation and harassment aimed at reducing and diminishing her rising political profile. “On the Christmas eve when we read about allegations that Nwachi, one of the few women in Ebonyi politics, was denied what others were given, we investigated and found it to be true. “How does the government of Ebonyi want our members to believe it is gender sensitive when one out of the only two females of a 24-member House is treated with disdain and without honour.” The group also alleged that the legislator was also denied constituency project refund even when she has already executed some projects and handed over to her constituency. “From further investigation we discovered that Nwachi is the first politician to have constructed an ultra-modern public toilet facility valued at over N50 million for her Afikpo people at the popular Eke Market, Afikpo. “Before now, this used to pose a big challenge to the people and we wondered why the Ebonyi government has yet to refund the money spent on the constituency project even when approval for payment has been given.” Nwachi, who was elected under the platform of the Progressives People’s Alliance in 2015, is the only opposition member in the 24 member Ebonyi house of assembly dominated by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Meanwhile, the Special Adviser to the Governor on State Assembly Liaison, Mr Sunday Ugwuocha, when contacted, said he was not aware of the development. “I am not in Abakaliki now but I will investigate it and get back to you when I return”, he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the lawmaker is running for the Federal House of Representatives seat under the platform of Alliance for New Nigeria to represent Afikpo North/Afikpo South.  (NAN)