By Chijioke Okoronkwo Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission(INEC) to collaborate with traditional rulers  in educating the local electorate on voting modalities ahead of the 2019 general elections. Buhari made the call while declaring open the 10th General Assembly of the National Council of Traditional Rulers of Nigeria (NCTRN) on Monday in Abuja. He was represented at the occasion by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. The theme of the Assembly is “Building a Synergy Towards Free, Fair,
Credible and Violence-Free 2019 General Elections: The Role of
Traditional Rulers. The  president said that there was need to build synergies that would engender free, fair and peaceful election. According to him, the annual gathering of the royal heads of
traditional institutions is timely and indeed,  a blessing, adfing that
the theme is most appropriate. “This is because the role of your royal majesties and traditional
institutions are crucial for connecting the people of your kingdoms and
domains to the federal and state agencies responsible for the conduct of
elections. “The major purpose of establishing that link is to educate the local
electorate or reinforce information that they may have about electoral
processes as laid down by INEC. “For example, INEC has said that in the forthcoming polls, voters
will be accredited and then vote immediately after accreditation. ” This is different from the old method of accreditation first and
then coming back hours later to vote; this must be well disseminated to
all. “Similarly, the use of card readers, the role of party agents and
other electoral actors will require some explanation and some
dissemination, especially where the rules have changed. ` And we expect that INEC will be working in close collaboration with
all of our royal fathers in your various domains to ensure that not are
you adequately informed, but also that your people are also adequately
informed,’’ he said. Buhari said that the role of security agencies was particularly
crucial in curbing violence but that the backbone of effective security
was quality intelligence. He said that the most trusted repository of local intelligence was
the royal father in his domain; hence the need for security agencies to
work closely wiht tje royal fathers in handling security issues during
the elections. The president urged the traditional rulers rise to their
responsibilities of guidance and counseling, to enlighten the populace
to shun all forms of animosity, aggression, conflict and violence
before, during and after the general.elections. He also implored them to moblise their people to participate by
voting for candidates of their choice and parties of their choice at all
levels without fear of molestation, intimidation or harassment. Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi,  the Ooni of Ife and Co-Chairman, (NCTRN), said
there was need for all sundry to keep praying for Nigeria; especially
for a smooth and successful 2019 general elections. According to him, traditional rulers have a pivotal role to play in
their various kingdoms and communities mostly, especially in moblising
the teeming youths. “So, the big side of it is for us to talk to our subjects for them to
comport themselves and go out to perform their civic duties and on the
flip side. “We should try as much as possible to curb violence. “We have key role to play in the stability and good governance of this country; we have no other country but Nigeria. ” We know there are challenges; we must play that pivotal role as a stablising force for our dear country,’’ he said. Earlier, INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, who was a special
guest, urged traditional rulers to moblise their subjects to collect
their Permanent Voters Card(PVCs) and exercise their franchise. Traditional rulers drawn from the 36 states of the federation
attended the Assembly; notable among them were the Sultan of Sokoto,
Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, the Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Alfred Achebe and the
Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi,among others.(NAN)