By Emmanuel Oloniruha Abuja – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has accredited 144 observer groups that will monitor the conduct of the forthcoming general elections in the country. The figure, as published on the commission’s official website,
www.inecnigeria.org, comprised 116 domestic and 28 international
observer groups. The commission advised all the accredited observers to abide by its code of conduct for election observers. “INEC is pleased to announce the successful applicants to observe the
2019 general elections holding on 16th Feb. 2019 and 2nd March, 2019. “All accredited observers shall abide by the code of conduct for
election observers, which is available for download on the INEC website
(www.inecnigeria.org). “INEC reserves the right to cancel and withdraw the accreditation of
any organisation if its members or agents breach the code of
conduct,’’ the commission said. It, therefore, advised the accredited groups to obtain and complete
form EC 14A (ii) from its  Elections and Party Monitoring Department, at
its Headquarters in Maitama, Abuja between 8am to 4pm (Monday to
Friday) starting from Jan. 28 to Feb. 1. The commission, however, warned that it would hand over to law
enforcement agencies any group other than those accredited, found in any
state for the elections. “Also, accredited field observers found in states other than where they are posted will equally be sanctioned. The accredited foreign observer groups are  African Bar Association; 
African Parliament of The Civil Society; African Union; British High
Commission; Democrat Union of Africa; ECOWAS; Elections Cameroon
(ELECAM) Republic Of Cameroon; and the  Electoral Institute for
Sustainable Democracy in Africa. Other accredited foreign observers are Embassy of France; Embassy of
Japan; Embassy of the Arab Republic of Egypt; Embassy of The Republic Of
Korea; European Centre For Electoral Support; European Union; German
International Agency;  High Commission of Canada;  and the International
Foundation For Electoral System. The International Human Rights CommissionI; International Peace
Commission; International Republican Institute; the National Democratic
Institute; the Network for Solidarity; and the Empowerment and
Transformation for All were also accredited to cover the elections. Other international obsevers accredited are Nigerians in Diaspora
Organization; Pan African Women Projects;  Pan African Youth Training
and Enlightenment Centre;  Queen Zara Foundation for Human Resources
Development; The Commonwealth; and the United States Embassy On the domestic scene, Action Aid Nigeria; Advocacy for Quality
Leadership and Health Awareness Foundation;  African Centre For
Leadership, Strategy and Development; African Christian Care Trust
Organization; Transition Monitoring Group; and YIAGA  Africa Initiative
are some of the observer groups accredited. Others are  African Initiative for Sustainable and Positive
Development; African Youth Leadership Roundtable Initiative; 
Al-Habibiyyah Islamic Society; Alliance for Credible Election; Asabe
Shehu Yar’adua Foundation; Centre for Citizens With Disabilities; Centre
for Strategic Conflict Management; and the Centre for Transparency
Advocacy Still on the domestic list are Children and Youth Awareness
Development Foundation; Christian Association of Nigeria; Christian
Council Of Nigeria; Church Of Nigeria  Anglican Communion; Citizens
Rights And Leadership Awareness Initiative; and the Citizens Rights For
Peace And Good Leadership Initiative. The Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre;  Cleen Foundation;
Conscience Women of Africa Initiative; Jama’atu Izalatau Badi’ah Wa
Ikamatu Sunnatu; Justice Development And Peace; Catholic Caritas
Foundation of Nigeria; and the National Orientation Agency also got the
approval to cover the elections. The others are the Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room (Policy And
Legal Advocacy Centre); Nigerian Bar Association; Northern Patriotic
Front;  Northern Youth And Elders Awareness Forum; Police Service
Commission; Shehu Musa Yar’adua Foundation; and The Albino Foundation.