Tokyo/London – Japanese refiners have loaded Iranian oil onto a tanker, resuming imports after halting purchases because of sanctions by the U.S., a spokesman for a Japanese refinery and an Iranian official said on Monday. Japan is the last of the four biggest Iranian oil buyers in Asia to
resume imports after receiving a waiver from U.S. sanctions on crude
imports that started in November. China and India maintained their imports after November while South
Korea halted imports for four months, resuming them over the weekend. Iran is the fourth-largest oil producer among the members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries. “After China, South Korea, India and Turkey, Japan also started the
process of importing Iranian oil,” Abdolnaser Hemmati, the governor of
the Central Bank of Iran, said according to the state news agency IRNA. Japanese refiner Fuji Oil Co lifted a cargo of Iranian crude oil over the weekend, a company spokesman said. The very large crude carrier (VLCC) Kisogawa loaded about two million
barrels of Iranian oil on Sunday and is expected to reach Japan on Feb.
9, according to the Fuji spokesman and Refinitiv Eikon data. Fuji Oil owns about half of the oil onboard, while Showa Shell Sekiyu KK owns the remainder, the Fuji spokesman said. “It took a while for us to resume imports of Iranian oil,” he said,
adding that the biggest hurdle was to get banks to agree to handle
payments to Iran. A Showa Shell spokesman declined to comment on specific deals, adding
that it has an option to resume Iran oil imports if all conditions are
met. Still, the Iranian exports to Japan, the world’s fourth-biggest oil
import, may be short-lived as two buyers based in Japan said they may
not be able to continue after annual tanker insurance backed by the
Japanese government expires in March. “We have already bought oil in case we can’t take Iranian cargoes for March loading,” one of the buyers said. Iran’s oil exports have fallen sharply since U.S. President Donald
Trump said in May 2018 the U.S. would withdraw from a pact curtailing
Iran’s disputed nuclear programme and re-impose sanctions on Tehran. Japan stopped oil imports from Iran in November when the sanctions
came into effect. Iranian oil accounted for 5.3 per cent of Japan’s
total crude imports in 2017. However, waivers were granted to Iran’s biggest oil clients – Japan,
China, India, South Korea, Taiwan, Italy, Greece and Turkey – which
allow them to import some oil for another 180 days. On Saturday, South Korea received its first Iranian oil cargo in four months.