By Stellamaris Ashinze   Lagos   –      Users of the computer village free WiFi on Wednesday commended
Google for providing and being consistent in ensuring effective Internet connection. The users made the commendation in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria ( NAN ) in Lagos. According to those who spoke to NAN, the initial stage of low or poor connectivity experienced
has reduced in spite of heavy usage. The Managing Director, Tashyda Technologies, Mr Ayodele Agbelese, said that the network at the
computer village had greatly improved. Agbelese, however, added that there were some offices in the computer village that do not get signal
due to their locations. He explained that “ According to him, the problem is not with the wi-fi but the location of such offices. He said “if users step out, they will notice that the network is stronger and effective. “There are no complains regarding the network at all, we are enjoying the connectivity. “Regarding the safety of our personal details, there is yet to be any complains about any individual’s
data hacked,” he said. An undergraduate, Miss Benita Ikem, also said that she visits the computer village frequently and has been using the free WiFi. She said “anytime I visit computer village, I put off my mobile data and use the free WiFi and I have never been disappointed.” Mr Godfrey Osas, a mobile phone technician, said that the rumour that the free WiFi was to get peoples’ data for illegal activities was not true. Osas said that there had been no issue of hacking into his personal details since he started using the free WiFi. He said that not only was the WiFi effective, it was also safe based on recent experience. Tech Giant had launched its free WiFi service called the Google Station for Nigerians in Ikeja, Lekki and other parts of Lagos. NAN reports that Google had on Sept. 20 installed six work stations in Computer Village to provide free Internet service in the environment. However, Google Country Director in Nigeria, Juliet Ehimuan-Chiazor, said: “It is live in some locations already like the MMA 2, Ikeja City
Mall, the Palms, Lekki, Computer Village and the University of Lagos (UNILAG).” She said that Google collaborated with a fibre network provider, 21st Century to launch the Google Station. According to her, the free Wi-Fi service will be launched in 200 locations in five cities across Nigeria by the end of 2019.