By Hilary Akalugwu  Nsukka   –     Mr Desmond Agbo, a human rights activist, has lauded the Federal Government’s decision to transmit the National Minimum Wage Bill to the National Assembly on or before January 23. The human rights activist described the government decision as a relief and a welcome development. Agbo, a legal practitioner told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Nsukka on Wednesday that the government’s decision had averted the proposed nationwide strike by the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC). He noted that a strike at this period would disrupt economic and commercial activities in the country. “Government’s decision to transmit the new N30, 000 minimum wage for workers to the National Assembly is a good development and should be commended. “By this decision, government has succeeded in averting the proposed nationwide strike by the NLC that could have a spiral effect on the economy,” he said. He urged government to ensure the fulfillment of its promise, so as to uphold its integrity as well as avoid labour crisis. “Government should not renege on its promise to send the minimum wage bill to the National Assembly before January 23, as failure will cast aspersion on its integrity and transparency. “Any nationwide strike by the NLC this January or February will not only affect the economy adversely, but the ripple effects will also affect the general elections. “I urge the National Assembly to also do the needful on the bill to enable workers receive the new wage in their January salary,” he said. The activist also lauded labour leaders and workers for their patience, peaceful and matured manner with which they had been pursuing the matter. “I wonder how civil servants could afford to take care of their family responsibilities with N18,000 minimum wage in the face of the present economic hardship . “Even, if the present N30,000 is not enough to pay bills, school fees and other miscellaneous expenses, it will boost workers’ incomes a great deal,’’ he added. According to him, it is because of the poor salary being paid to civil servants that politicians usually address them as the poor people or the poor masses.