By Olasunkanmi Onifade Abuja – The Supreme Council of Bishops on Tuesday appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to assent to the Electoral Amendment Bill for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to implement it. The Founding Primate of the Council, Archbishop Polycarp Sunday made
the appeal in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in
Abuja. He said that the Senate and House of Representatives had passed the Electoral Bill for the fourth time. NAN reports that the bill seeks to amend the election laws of Nigeria, otherwise called Electoral Act. The Act also guides how INEC handles operations and how members of
staff of INEC go about the business of conducting elections for states
and at the federal level. “We, the Global Council of Bishops worldwide, are appealing to
President Buhari to assent positively to the Amended Nigeria’s Electoral
Bill, not minding the fact that the time frame is short. “We posit, this electoral amendment bill be given a fair hearing by
the Presidency, as Nigeria’s Senate and House of Representatives have
passed the bill for the fourth time now, which indicates its
transparence and importance, despite Mr. President’s refusal to assent. “Nigerians desire a true and positive change; as Nigerians have come a
long way in accommodating electoral and political changes dating back
to the days of National Electoral Commission (NEC), in the days of Mr.
Humphrey Nwosu in the late 90’s,” Sunday said. He, however, appealed to all levels of government and INEC to explore
all avenues to prevent rigging and ensure fairness in the upcoming
elections. Sunday called all religious bodies across the country to support INEC
and come out en mass to vote for a credible, God fearing and an
articulate leader in the upcoming election. “We Pray, Nigeria will succeed and survive the 2019 general elections. “We want it to be free and fair and the emergence of a credible,
detribilised Nigerian and leader that will take all Nigerians to the
Promised Land,’’ he said.(NAN)