By Martins Abochol Jada (Adamawa) – Gov. Mohammed Bindow of Adamawa, on Wednesday promised to upgrade the Adamawa School for Special Education in Jada, to world class standard. Bindow gave the assurance during the All Progressives Congress (APC)
governorship campaign in Jada Local Government Area (LGA) of Adamawa. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Jada is the hometown of
Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the Presidential Candidate of the Peoples
Democratic Party (PDP). The governor stressed the need to provide conducive environments in all educational institutions in the state. He said that the physically challenged had potentials to contribute
meaningfully to the development of the state in particular, and the
nation in general. The governor also promised to construct a four kilometre road within the Jada LGA headquarters. He noted the road infrastructural defect in the area, assuring that
the State Executive Council would hold an extra ordinary meeting on
Friday to approve the proposal. “I will soon commence the rehabilitation of the school for special education here in Jada. “I know the importance of upgrading the standard of special education in every society. “The physically challenged are equally endowed with potentials that can contribute to the nation’s growth. “I will also begin the construction of a four kilometre Jada township
road in a couple of days as the state executive council will hold an
extraordinary meeting on Friday to approve the proposal. “I must ensure that these promises are fulfilled because I made
promises in the past and fulfilled them, so your case cannot be an
exception,” Bindow said. He urged the people of the area to vote for President Muhammadu Buhari and all APC candidates for the coming elections. He said that the party meant well for the people, especially people that had been neglected in the past. He pointed out the ongoing Mayo Belwa-Toungo road construction
projects as one of the gigantic projects in the state embarked on by
Buhari’s government. Earlier, Alhaji Umar Ardo, the District Head of Jada, when he
received the governor, appealed to the state government to create jobs
to reduce youth restiveness in the area. He requested the government to rehabilitate the school, adding that
the deplorable condition of the school had discouraged parents from
taking their children to the school. He also called on politicians to eschew bitterness before and after the forthcoming elections. NAN reports that the APC governorship campaign team received 200 “decampees’’ from other political parties into its fold. NAN also reports that there was a large crowd of supporters that welcomed Gov. Bindow and his campaign team. (NAN)