By Philip Dzeremo Makurdi – Maj.Gen Adeyemi Yekini, Force Commander, Operation Whirl Stroke (OPWS) has denied media reports that herdsmen killed 15 Benue indigenes in a renewed attack on communities in the state. Yekini, who denied the report in a statement signed by him on
Saturday in Makurdi, said there were no such killings in the state. ” The headquarters of OPWS, wish to state that the force did not
receive any report of a single killing or even injury inflicted by armed
herdsmen on anybody in any part of Benue state in the past several
months. ” OPWS has troops in all the areas mentioned including Makurdi and
there is no way up to 15 people would be killed without our troops being
aware of it. ” Such a large number of killings would have triggered exodus of
people in the affected communities , which journalists would have
captured almost as they happen. ” There are also other security agencies on ground including
traditional, military units, Police, Civil Defense and DSS personnel,
who would have filed reports of the killings through their respective
channels while also exchanging such information with us. ” HQ OPWS is requesting the good people of Benue to disregard the
news and go about their normal business activities without fear, with
assurance that OPWS remains resolutely committed to restoring lasting
peace to Benue State.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that the commander of the
military operation had in July 2018 told journalists that the military
outfit had substantially degraded armed militia groups in the affected
states and was currently helping displaced persons return to their
homes. “OPWS had substantially achieved its mandate of putting to an end
incessant killings by armed armed groups in the three states which
constitutes its Joint Operation Area. “The Force is now focused on destroying remnants of armed militia
camps that might still be in any parts of Benue, Nasarawa and Taraba
states in addition to working for the return of more IDP’s.” NAN reports that the special operation, comprising Air force, Army,
Navy, DSS, Intelligence gathering outfits, was constituted by President
Muhammadu Buhari to tackle incessant militia attacks on unarmed
civilians in the three states (NAN)