2 By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has
reacted to the concerns raised by former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo
ahead of 2019 general election, saying that points he raised have vindicated
the party’s repeated position that President Buhari is out to  perpetuate himself in office. Recall that former President Obasanjo in a 16-page letter released to Journalists in Abeokuta accused President Muhammadu Buhari of being desperate to ensure his re-election at all cost and by all means and added that Nigeria is back to Abacha’s era where hatchet men were used to kill and maim Nigerians to remain in power. The party reminded that if Nigerians don’t take action with their votes, it would mean giving up the nation to totalitarian forces at our own peril and those of generations yet unborn. Director, Media & Publicity, PDP Presidential Campaign
Organization, Kola Ologbondiyan who disclosed this on Sunday in a statement,
noted that the APC has always been a deceptive soulless mob that would rather
have our nation burn than to be out of power. The statement reads in full: The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) says the concerns raised
by former President Olusegun Obasanjo, detailing President Muhammadu Buhari’s
scheme to use apparatus of state power to subjugate Nigerians, undermine our
democratic system, subvert the electoral process and perpetuate himself in
office, have further vindicated its stand that Mr. President is out for a
self-succession plot. Obasanjo’s submission has also reinforced our position that
President Buhari, and his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), having
realized that there is no way he can win in a free and fair election, is now
besieging all democratic institutions, including the Judiciary, the
Legislature, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), while
engaging in acts that threaten the unity, peace and corporate existence of our
dear nation. The whole world can see how President Buhari and APC’s
desperation for power is putting the lives of over 200 million Nigerian
citizens at great risk as their actions stoke violence and push our dear nation
to the precipice. We are however not surprised that the APC, a party that has
shown that it is completely anti-people, quickly rose in defence of the Buhari
Presidency’s assault on our democratic order. The APC has always been a deceptive
soulless mob that would rather have our nation burn than to be out of power. President Obasanjo’s concern is therefore a clarion call to
all compatriots, irrespective of ethnic, religious and political affiliations
to rise in defence of our democracy. He has reinforced the fact that this nation belong to all of
us; that our pride as a people lies in our resilience and globally acclaimed
ability to rise above and defeat every situation that challenges our
nationhood. The PDP therefore calls on all Nigerians to be at alert at
this critical time to stop President Buhari and the APC on their anti-democratic
trails with our votes. We should never allow anybody to set our nation on fire just
to achieve selfish ambitions. We must eschew all our differences and unite in
using our votes to take back our country from this dwindling, incompetent,
ineffectual, corrupt and anti-people administration. If we don’t take action with our votes, we would be giving
up our nation to totalitarian forces at our own peril and those of generations
yet unborn. Signed: Kola Ologbondiyan Director, Media & Publicity PDP Presidential Campaign Organization