Caracas – Venezuelan opposition leader, Juan Guaido, declared himself interim president on Wednesday, while hundreds of thousands of Venezuelans poured onto the streets to demand an end to the socialist government of President Nicolas Maduro. In a statement minutes later, U.S. President Donald Trump recognized Guaido as Venezuela’s legitimate interim president. Demonstrators clogged avenues in Eastern Caracas, chanting “Get out,
Maduro” and “Guaido, Presidente,” while waving national flags. Police fired tear gas to disperse protesters in several areas. A
rally the night before left four people reported dead, an echo of
tumultuous riots two years ago. The opposition has been energized by young congress chief Guaido, who
has led a campaign to declare Maduro a usurper and has promised a
transition to a new government in a nation suffering a hyperinflationary
economic collapse. Guaido, in a speech before a cheering crowd, took an oath swearing himself in as interim president. “I swear to assume all the powers of the presidency to secure an end of the usurpation,” he said. He has said he would be willing to replace Maduro with the support of the military and to call free elections. The Trump administration told U.S. energy companies it could impose
sanctions on Venezuelan oil as soon as this week if the political
situation worsens, according to sources. Maduro was inaugurated on Jan. 10 to another term in office following
a widely boycotted election in 2018 that many foreign governments
described as fraudulent. His government accuses Guaido of staging a coup and has threatened him with jail. Any change in government in Venezuela will rest on a shift in allegiance within the armed forces. They have stood by Maduro through two waves of street protests and a steady dismantling of democratic institutions. “We need freedom, we need this corrupt government to get out, we need
to all unite, so that there is peace in Venezuela,” said Claudia
Olaizola, a 54-year-old saleswoman near the march’s centre in the
Eastern Chacao district, a traditional opposition bastion. In a potent symbol of anger, demonstrators in the Southern city of
Puerto Ordaz on Tuesday toppled a statue of late socialist leader Hugo
Chavez, broke it in half and dangled part of it from a bridge. A 16-year-old was shot to death at a protest on Tuesday in Western
Caracas, according to rights group Venezuelan Observatory of Social
Conflict. Three people were shot dead on Tuesday night in Southern Bolivar City
during a looting of a grocery store that followed a nearby protest,
Bolivar state governor Justo Noguera said in a telephone interview. Maduro has presided over Venezuela’s spiral into its worst-ever economic crisis. His re-election in 2018 was widely viewed as a sham due to widespread election irregularities. “We’ve come out to support the opposition and preserve the future of
my son and my family, because we’re going hungry,” said Jose Barrientos,
31, an auto parts salesman. (Reuters/NAN)