Enugu – gboezue Cultural Advancement Initiative, a pan-Igbo political and socio-cultural group, has urged Ndigbo to vote massively for the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari. The National Leader of Igboezue, Chief Chekwas Okorie, said this in a
news conference on the “Stand of the Vast Majority of Ndigbo” on
Thursday in Enugu. Okorie said that it was politically expedient for the Igbo electorate
all over Nigeria to vote massively for President Buhari on Feb. 16. “We urge the Igbo electorate who amount to about 30 million voters
across the country to join hands with other Nigerians to have a major
stake in the imminent victory of President Muhammadu Buhari in the
forthcoming Presidential Election. “We must not be the odd group out of the imminent victory celebration. “As a critical stakeholder, we must earn our claim to be supported to
produce the President of Nigeria in 2023. Ndigbo are not cut out for
the opposition. “The very political leaders in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who
are misleading our people into putting all their eggs in the PDP basket
will be the first to jump ship and abandon them and relocate to the
ruling party. “We are used to their kind and we know them,’’ he said. Okorie however, criticised the leadership of Ohaneze for going into
political partisanship by adopting the Presidential candidate of the
PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar under the cover of its decision making body,
`Imeobi Ndigbo’ on Jan. 24. He noted that the unfortunate adoption and endorsement of Atiku was
embarrassing and ridiculing to the Igbo nation as politically naïve and
pedestrian in their collective political strategy. According to him, what manner of desperation would persuade those who
gathered at Enugu to desecrate the memory of the great Zik of Africa by
choosing to sideline the historic and epoch making event of the
commissioning of the Zik Mausoleum in favour of the adoption of Atiku. He noted that Ohaneze leadership allegedly erred since it was an
undeniable fact that the PDP manifesto had no provision for the
restructuring of Nigeria. “There is also no evidence of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) which Ohaneze reached with Alhaji Atiku,’’ he said. According to him, the fact that there are 33 Igbo sons and daughters
contesting for Presidential and Vice Presidential posts in the 2019
Presidential Election makes the purported Imeobi political misadventure a
monumental tragedy.