By Akeem Abas Ibadan –  Prof. Isaac Adewole, the Minister of Health, on Saturday in Ibadan, hosted Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Gov. Abiola Ajimobi and his Osun counterpart, Gboyega Oyetola at the wedding ceremony of his (Adewole) son. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the solemnisation of holy matrimony between Adedayo Adewole, the minister’s son, and Ebunoluwa Oyedele, was held at Agbala Daniel Cathedra, Ojoo, Ibadan. NAN reports that the wedding reception of the colorful ceremony, which attracted several prominent dignitaries, was held at the International Conference Centre, University of Ibadan. In her message, Archbishop Dorcas Olaniyi, Founder and Prophetess of the church, urged the couple to embrace the Christian modest way of life. Olaniyi, who prayed for the couple, counseled them on sincere love, maturity and godliness in dealing with each other. Ajimobi, who was the chairman at the reception, urged the couple to be faithful to each other and live with sincere love. The governor commended the parents for giving their best in nurturing the newly wedded in becoming responsible stakeholders in the society. Oyetola in his remarks, reiterated that it was important for the couple to embrace godliness, urging them to avoid discussing their issues with friends or third parties. He urged them to always explore amicable resolution of differences within their home. Mr Boss Mustapha, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), said the business of marriage was about companionship. Mustapha urged them to always embrace patience, tolerance and godliness in their dealings, praying that the couple live long and peacefully. Among dignitaries at the occasion were Mr Adebayo Shittu, Minister of Communications, Chief Bisi Akande, former governor of Osun State, Sen. Olusola Adeyeye and Mr Babafemi Ojudu, an aide of the President. Others were Mr Boboye Oyeyemi, Federal Road Safety Ccommission (FRSC) boss, Mr Abiodun Odude, Oyo State Commissioner of Police, Oba Adekunle Aromolaran, Owa Obokun of Ijeshaland and Oba Abdur-Rasheed Akanbi, Oluwo of Iwo, among others. (NAN)