By Ishaq Zaki  Gusau –   The police command in Zamfara has foiled planned attacks on some communities in the state and arrested a notorious gunrunner suspected to be supplying arms to bandits and other criminals. The State Commissioner of Police, Alhaji Muhammad Zannah, disclosed this at a press conference in Gusau on Wednesday. Zannah said the command foiled two planned banditry attacks on Dan-Gamji, Bindin, Gobirawa, Chali villages in Dansadau Emirate in Maru Local Government Area of the state. He also said that a suspected gunrunner, Umaru Shehu, was arrested in possession of 11 locally-made guns. “We recovered 11 guns meant for supply to bandits in his possession. “Based on some overwhelming revelations, the suspect has been subjected to discreet investigation with a view to effecting the arrest of his accomplices. “Our combat readiness, determination and total commitment towards onslaught against vicious crimes made it possible. “We are committed to ensuring effective partnership with the state government, traditional rulers and community leaders,” he said. He said the command also arrested 41 suspects in connection with the violent protest that occurred in Tsafe on the Dec. 24, 2018. “Some miscreants on Dec. 24, embarked on a violent protest in Tsafe, Magazu and Kucheri towns in Tsafe LGA where they blocked the federal high way leading to Gusau from Tsafe and set tyres ablaze on the road. “A situation that led to the destruction of Tsafe Local Government Secretariat with 19 vehicles, unspecified number of televisions, motorcycles, laptops, desktops computers, mattresses and other properties,’’ he said. The police commissioner said the command also rescued a woman, Ayobami Daudu, who was kidnapped by bandits on her way from Zaria. According to him, the major security challenges in the state included cattle rustling, armed banditry, reprisal attacks, kidnapping/abduction, culpable homicide and farmers/herders clashes. “Apart from the 11 locally fabricated guns, we also recovered arms which included one AK 47 rifle, one SMG rifle with two magazines, and 32 rounds of live 7.62 ammunition,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Zannah who assumed duty on Jan. 1, replaced the former CP, Mr Belel Usman.  (NAN)