By Chukwuemeka Opara Abakaliki, – The Ebonyi Police command said on Sunday that none of its personnel or driver of articulated vehicle was killed during Friday’s squabble at the Abakaliki/ Enugu express road. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that some police personnel
and articulated vehicle drivers had engaged in a squabble at the Enugu/
Ebonyi border end of the road over an alleged refusal by a driver to
offer financial gratification to a policeman. The latter had reportedly attacked the policeman for assaulting their
member, leading to a squabble and subsequent blocking of the road by
the drivers for more than six hours. ASP Loveth Odah, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) ,
who narrated the details to a NAN correspondent in an interview,
debunked speculations that policemen died in the fracas. “The corpse discovered by passers-by and passengers inside a bush around the area, has been confirmed to be that of a lunatic. “No police personnel or articulated vehicle driver died from the
squabble as being reported, but the concerned driver and policeman are
recuperating in the hospital,” she said. Odah noted that the policeman, Hillary Igwe of the Federal Highway
Patrol unit, who reportedly attacked the drive, would be sanctioned by
the command after receiving treatment at the hospital. “He will be seriously sanctioned for the attack on the driver,  which
the command views as indiscipline and capable of bringing its image
into disrepute. “The drivers are not accusing the command of any wrong-doing because
we  do not condone unruly behaviour from our personnel,” she said. She however urged drivers and other road users to be patient and
civil whenever such incident occured, instead of taking laws into their
hands. “The articulated vehicle driver could have alerted us over the incident and we would have surely handled it professionally. “It could have averted the unpleasant situation witnessed on the road
that day, with calls flying all over, of the blockage of the ever busy
express road due to the squabble,” she said. Odah said that normalcy had since been restored on the road,
revealing that the intervention of a Deputy Commissioner of Police saved
the situation.