By Felix Ugboja ABUJA (Sundiata Post) The Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC, has revealed that cyber fraud costs Nigeria and Nigerians about N12.5 billion every year. This was made known on Tuesday by the Executive Vice-Chairman of the Commission, Prof. Umar Danbatta at the ‘Stakeholders Forum on Financial Fraud Using Telecoms Platform’organised by the Commission at Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja. The event had a number of experts and stakeholders from the telecom, banking, ecommerce and relevant government agencies to deliberate on the menace of financial fraud and agree on effective recommendations to address the problem. According to EVC Danbatta, ‘’this forum is taking place at a time when financial fraud in the country has reached N12.5bn. So something needs to be done urgently to secure the confidence of Nigerians in the financial system as well as in the telecom system in Nigeria.’’ He said that the commission has been collaborating with the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, and other relevant agencies concerning financial cyber-crimes to tackle the problem. He said that the need to always collaborate is important and is informed by the commission’s agenda on ‘Strategic Collaboration and Partnership.’ The Commission, he said, has realised that it will be impossible to accomplish most of the functions assigned to it without close collaboration with other agencies of government. ‘’An important area of this collaboration is now how to handle the challenge of fraud in the financial industry. Frauds that are being perpetrated by leveraging on the telecom services; and NCC is mandated and determined to help fix the problem.’’ He said. ‘’We are also collaborating very well in the area of mobile money and financial inclusion to the extent that the CBN is poised to give licenses to telecom operators to provide these kind of services.’’ With over 31% Internet Broad Brand Penetration currently in Nigeria, and with a lot of room for more penetration, he said that there are benefits and risks of such digital transformation, and that financial cyber fraud is one of those risks. ‘’But in spite of these risks, we cannot afford not to embrace digital transformation. We have a Cyber Response Team dedicated to this problem. The malevolence use of these services to carry out financial fraud is a great problem. Communication channels have been seized by cyber criminals to defraud unsuspecting victims; but with good collaboration, like the one we are having today, we are going to do better with identifying, investigating, arresting and prosecuting the criminals.’’ He added. He further encouraged customers to always escalate their problems, especially one relating to fraud to relevant authorities. According to the CBN Governor, Godwin Emiefele, who was represented by Deputy Governor, Folashodun  Shonubi, the aim of the forum is to ask and answer questions bordering on how to ensure that people’s information are secure; how to collaborate to find out those who use this information for fraudulent purposes and other mitigating measures. The Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, who was also represented by Bolaji Oronsanye from the Presidency, said that the conversation is of interest to everyone. ‘’Each sector of the economy is vulnerable to cyber-crime and this conversation is timely. A solution will build confidence and create more financial inclusion. And in reaching those solutions, Financial institutions should guard against infiltration of their data by investing in new technologies; there should be timely prosecution of criminals to build confidence, and stakeholders forums like this should be sustained in order to share ideas.’’ He said. The Minister of Communication, Bar. Adebayo Shittu who also decried the alarming increase in cyber-crime and identity theft said that with the anti-cyber-crime law now in place and with the National Security Adviser, NSA, who is the chairman of the cyber-crime council, a long lasting solution will soon be reached.