By Emmanuel Mogbede Abuja – Mr Kingsley Moghalu, the Presidential candidate of the Young Progressives Party (YPP), says Nigeria needs a different kind of leadership that will transform the country and make it the envy of other nations. Moghalu stated this on Saturday in Abuja at the 2019 Presidential Debate orgnaised by the Broadcasting Organisation of Nigeria in partnership with Nigerian Election Debate Group and some other bodies. He  said if he elected as the country`s next president, his administration would address the root course of its challenges. Moghalu, who is venturing into politics for the first time, and a former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), saidhis administration would restructure the country using the constitution. He further said that women and the youth would be recognised in his administration, adding that skill acquisition centers would be created in all parts of the country while access to loan would be made possible for small and medium scale business. Also speaking at the debate, Mr Fela Durotoye, presidential candidate of Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN) who claimed to be a business man and a nation builder, said he was poised to deliver everything that needed to take Nigeria to an enviable height. Durotoye said it was regrettable that in spite of its natural resource, Nigeria had yet to achieve its full potentials. He alleged that the country`s past leadership had failed the people, saying that he would restore hope to Nigerians if elected as the country`s next president on Feb. 16. “Together, we will all build a nation that will work for us,“ he said. Mrs Oby Ezekwesili, a fomer Minister of Education and the presidential candidate of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN),also blamed the country`s present challenges on the failure of its past leadership. The ACPN presidential candidate further decried the poverty level in the country which she said was caused by leadership failure. “I have been a technocrat that knows what it takes to fix the country`s problems, I have the capacity, the competency and the character to take on this new leadership that our country deserves, “ she said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that President Muhammadu Buhari, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) were supposed to be at the debate. While President Buhari was,however, unable to make it to the debate, Atiku briefly showed up but did not participate in the debate. (NAN)