By Nkiru Ifeajuna Lagos – A professional DJ, Peter Nwafor, popularly known as “DJ Peezy’’ has appealed to  the Federal Government to use arts and culture as a capacity development for  Nigerian youths. Peezy told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos that the arts
and culture sector was the largest employer of labour in any country and
could keep the youth busy. “I am a DJ and a dancer; I know several  youths, both male and
female, that want to come into the fold every day and into other
performing arts. “Government has a responsibility to educate the youth and in doing
this, it  has  to provide materials for them that they can use to teach
themselves new things. “Nigerian youths are hungry for training in various fields so that
they can better themselves, and become  self- reliant,’’ he said. The DJ said that several  youths that are into various arts needed
financial assistance for researches  and also to  buy tools to practis e
what they  had learnt. “The youth should be engaged  in promoting what we have and document their works. “Government needs to publish a lot of materials of what we have in
arts and culture so that people will know and appreciate them,’’ he
said. He said that  DJs needed  good libraries where they can keep  their
works, saying: “ We need space and our table is costly, it goes for over
N500, 000. “That is the complete set, but those who do not have the money, buy  laptops which are  also costly,’’ he said. Peezy said that grants from the Federal Government  would provide a
baseline of value to the music and keep it evergreen  for  many years to
come. “Instead of inviting  people from abroad to teach us or build these
things for us, government should train the youth to do it themselves. “Many of our DJs can stand up to those abroad, all we need is more training and grants,’’ he said. He also called on corporate bodies to help in the capacity development of the arts and culture sector. “There is a lot of money in arts and culture; this is what we fail to understand as a people. “Let  the Federal Government  and private sector sponsor more competitions for artists  to recognise  their importance. “When Nigerian culture gets exported, we will be losing money because it will not be properly guided  and documented. “These are areas we want government to also look into to help us  and the nation too to earn good money,’’ he said.