By Emmanuel Oloniruha Abuja – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has commenced a two-day workshop for its Public Affairs officers (POAs) on how to detect and counter fake news on election related matters. The training with
the theme “Fake news, disinformation and Media Monitoring ‘’ was held
in collaboration with the European Centre for Electoral Support (ECES)
on Friday in Abuja. The Resident
Electoral Commissioner (REC), INEC-FCT, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, said that
the training would equip the officers on new strategies on how to handle
fake news, which was a concern to the commission. Bello said that
the training would no doubt equip the officers to discharge their duties
effectively as the commission prepares for the conduct of free, fair
and credible elections. “As you already
know, the dissemination of fake news has very negative effects not just
on elections but other areas of life and must therefore be identified
and discountenanced. “In particular,
INEC is concerned with a situation where mischievous individuals post
unofficial election results on the internet. This has the tendency
of fomenting violence and mayhem resulting in the loss of precious lives
and property. “It is on record
that fake news gave birth to break up of diplomatic relations of
countries, while in other cases resulted into wars or unjustified
invasions only to come to terms with the true situation much later and
leave the rest to history.’’ Bello said that
in the recent times, INEC severally had its share of fake news,
especially after the temporary suspension of the Continuous
Voter Registration. The Executive
Director, ECES, Mr Fabio Bargiachi, disclosed that ECES had delivered
hard and software that would be installed in the coming days
establishing National Media Centre for INEC. Bargiachi,
represented by Dominique Weerts, ECES Senior Capacity Development
Expert, said that the centre was established on the request of INEC and
in line with recommendations of EU Observation Mission in Nigeria in
2015. “The skills and
expertise you will acquire from this workshop will be directly relevant
to the functioning of this centre. Further support will be considered in
due course to expand, strengthen and widen the scope of the media
monitoring unit.’’ Bargiachi said
that ECES was committed to contribute to deepening the democracy, saying
“that is why I believe INEC places great store on capacity building so
as to cement the gains of previous elections.’’ He added that the
aim of the training was to enhance the officers’ understanding on fake
new, by looking at the existing regulatory frameworks governing the
media, explore cases of fake news and elections in other parts of the
world. Bargiachi said
that was to critically, sharpen the tools at the officers’ disposal to
spot and mitigate increasing scourge of fake news and disinformation. “Building on that, the workshop also aims to equip you with basic skills and techniques in monitoring a variety of media source. “This is expected
to contribute to improving the commission’s internal and external
interactions with stakeholders, as well as providing accurate
information for timely response,’’ Bargiachi said. The INEC Director
of Media and Publicity, Mr Oluwole Osaze-Uzzi, said that fake news and
disinformation were threat to democracy. Osaze-Uzzi said
that anything that tends to subvert the will of the people, undermine
the sovereignty of the will of the people or promote violence was a
threat to democracy. “Democracy is about choices and choices are made based on information received or at your disposal. If the information you believe was correct turned out to be fake, then you decision or judgement is faulty.’’ (NAN)