By Babatunde Ogunrinde Lagos – Multichoice Nigeria Ltd, the GOtv satellite television service providers on Monday said that the company had launched three-month invitation to the best of European football and other top-class sport programming. According Damilola Olujide, the Media Coordinator, GOtv, the
invitation tagged “Top up Offer’’ will run from April 15 where active
and disconnected subscribers, especially those on GOtv Plus can be
upgraded to GOtv MAX. The GOtv Max which initially attracts a monthly subscription of N3,
200 will have subscribers benefit from the offer when they pay a reduced
fee of N2, 500. The “Top Up” offer is an invitation to the high stable of European
football with its rich menu of La Liga, Serie A, Premier League,
Emirates FA Cup and UEFA Champions League matches. GOtv MAX provides access to all the matches of the La Liga football
competition with stars like Barcelona’s Lionel Messi, Luis Suarez,
Phillipe Coutinho and a host of others. In the La Liga, Barcelona is seeking to turn their dominance into supremacy by defending the title. They remain in pole position, having earned 46 points from 20 games played so far. They are followed by the resilient Atletico Madrid, who are just five points behind. The world’s biggest and most anticipated club match, the El Clasico
between Barcelona and Real Madrid, will be aired live in March. Also, on the menu are selected matches of the Premier League actions
which features players like Mohammed Salah and Sadio Mane of Liverpool
and Manchester City’s Sergio Aguero among many other stars. The race to be crowned England’s Premier League champions is in
progress, as Liverpool chases their first league title since 1990. Hot on their heels are Manchester City, who are aiming to defend the title they won last season. The Emirates FA Cup, the world’s oldest club competition; and select
matches of the UEFA Champions League, the world’s most prestigious club
competition, provide an icing on the sporting cake. In Italy, Juventus FC are hoping to claim their eighth straight Serie
A title with are eight points clear of their nearest challenger, Napoli
FC. Christiano Ronaldo, the club’s biggest acquisition, has continued his
freakish goal scoring form in Italy. He leads the goal chart with 14
goals. Ronaldo, who is seeking to conquer Italy to add to his conquest of
England and Spain equally makes available to subscribers all the matches
of the Italian Serie A. In a related development, action from the second leg of the 2018/2019
European football season gets more intense, some teams are hunting hard
to claim the ultimate glory of being crowned champions. However, some others are struggling to ensure that they are not
relegated to the lower-tier league in Spain, Italy and England come the
end of the season in May. The UEFA Champions League, which resumes in February, offers
mouth-watering clashes among Europe elite teams, as it enters its
knockout phase. The newly minted UEFA Nations League and the last rounds of the
African Cup of Nations qualifiers make for a sumptuous dish of sport
content on GOtv MAX.