By Akeem Abas Ibadan –   Mrs Tolulope Sadipe, the APC House of Representatives candidate for Oluyole Federal Constituency in Oyo State, has pledged more commitment to the industrialisation of the constituency. She told the News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) in Ibadan on Monday that she has contributed immensely to the ongoing industrialisation of the constituency. NAN reports that Sadipe, a Special Adviser to Gov. Abiola Ajimobi on Projects, is the only female APC House of Representatives candidates contesting in the 2019 general elections in Oyo State. Sadipe said that the ongoing industrialisation of the constituency by the Ajimobi-led administration in the state must be supported to attain the desired height. “I am part of the administration led by Ajimobi, the father of modern Oyo State. This administration has commenced the industrialisation of this constituency with several companies springing up. “We have a lot more to do to sustain developmental growth of this constituency, particularly the industrialisation project of the area,’’ she said. She lauded the Federal Government’s homegrown rice project in the constituency which she facilitated, describing it as a better alternative to boosting food security and revenue generation for the nation. “The project, which is ongoing on about 50 acres of land, is at the peak of harvest. “ The initiative has a greater impact in South western part of Nigeria, particularly Oluyole local government in Oyo State,” she said. The governor’s aide pledged to provide quality representation and to positively impact on the lives of people across the constituency if elected. “The collective interest and well-being of my people will form the nucleus of my representation. My interest is to serve and give them direction. “I am sincerely interested in building a solid political mindset through quality lawmaking,” she said. Sadipe assured constituents of her readiness to attract quality and people-oriented projects to the constituency toward enhancing the socio-economic and political life of her constituents. “I want to lead my people to the path of progress, development and inculcate in them true zeal of patriotism. I am a woman of the people with a heart for service. “I believe in going to the grassroots and there was never a time that my people have not shown me love judging from my proven humanitarian attachment to them,” she said. NAN recalls that Sadipe had on Dec. 24 flagged off her campaign at Olomi area of the constituency in Ibadan.  (NAN)