By Bushrah Yusuf-Badmus Malete – The Kwara State University (KWASU), Malete, on Wednesday matriculated its 5th set of Postgraduate students for the 2018/2019 Academic Session. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the convocation held at
the university’s Mini-Convocation Arena, was chaired by the
Vice-Chancellor, Prof. AbdulRasheed Na’Allah. Addressing the matriculating students, Na’Állah urged them to use
their talents, intellect and enthusiasm to advance the university’s
shared commitment to advance learning and research. He pointed out that advanced studies entailed indulgence of imagination and craving for knowledge and advanced research. “It is a time to dream ambitiously about what you can achieve as individuals. “KWASU is established as an institution with core values of academic
excellence, institutional integrity, justice, equity and diversity. “Such ideals are impetus for fostering intellectual growth and personal development of students, ‘’ he said. Na’Allah said the institution was commitment to creating a viable
environment for intellectual growth and personal development of its
students. He said the institution was also committed to facilitating visible
and sustainable cooperation, development and transformation of its host
communities. “The university has continued to achieve a lot in this direction
through the Centre for Community Development, which has implemented
various community development projects. “These projects are largely to assist the people in our immediate and
larger communities in achieving the United Nations’ Sustainable
Development Goals, entrepreneurship development, provision of basic
amenities and self-employment. “As a postgraduate institution, advanced research will be at its best
at KWASU, especially with the state-of-the-art Library Complex due for
commissioning this year, ‘’ the vice-chancellor said. Na’Allah assured the matriculating students of a conducive learning
environment and the institution’s commitment to stable academic
calendar.