By Emmanuel Oloniruha Youths Abuja – The Independent National Electoral Commission has advised Nigerian youths not to allow themselves to be used to do wrong things that would disrupt the elections. The Chairman of the commission, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, gave the advice
at a National Youth Summit organised by the commission on Tuesday in
Abuja Yakubu also appealed to INEC Youth Ambassadors (IYA) to continue to
appeal to the youths for peaceful elections on Feb. 16 and March 2 . “Conflict, violence and disruption are the exact antithesis of
credible elections. Since the majority are the young people, they should
participate in the elections peacefully and not allow themselves to be
mobilised for the wrong reasons. “Don’t be mobilised for doing the wrong things by people whose future
is already determined. The future is yours not for those who may wish
for all manner of reasons to mobilise you in the wrong direction, Yakubu
said. He said that though the use of mobile phone was banned at voting
cubicle while accredited voters cast their vote, but that people were
free to use their phones at the general areas of the polling units. “After the election, I will encourage you to snap pictures of the
EC60E and for those of you who engage in vote tabulation you can easily
 tabulate and have an idea of the outcome of the election, even before
INEC make declaration.’’ Yakubu described the forthcoming general elections as elections of
the young people, as the youth constituted about 81 per cent of the
80,004,084 of the total registered voters. He said that the youth  in the just released voter register had 42,
938,458 voters which constituted 51.1 per cent of the total registered
voters. “This is followed by the second category called the farmers and
fishermen with 13.6 million, that is 16.2 per cent of the registered
voters, but among the farmers and fishermen, again the majority are
youths. “So, those between the ages of 18 and 35 constitute 42.9 million
approximately 43 million of the registered voters which is 51 percent of
the total registered voters in the country. “If you add the middle aged category between 36 to 50, which is 25
million or 30 per cent, the young people in this country constitute 81
per cent of the registered voters in Nigeria. “So, the 2019 general election is actually the election of the young people,” Yakubu said. He urged the INEC Ambassadors to encourage Nigerian youths to get
their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs), saying without PVCs you cannot vote. Yakubu, who said that the deadline for the collection of PVCs would
be Feb. 8, assured Nigerian that all uncollected PVCs would be
quarantined until after the general election. He pledged that INEC would later disclose the number of uncollected
PVCs nationwide to know the exact figure of voters that would
participate in the forthcoming elections. INEC Director of Publicity and Voter Education, Mr Oluwole
Osaze-Uzzi, said that all states of the federation were represented at
the summit. He advised Nigerian youths to take active participation in the
elections to determine those who would govern the affairs of the
country. The European Union Ambassador, Ketil Karlsen, said that it was
expected of Nigeria to consolidate on the standard and peaceful election
it achieved in 2015 general elections. Karlsen, who commended INEC for its sensitisation programmes and
reaching out to the youths, said that the 2019 was an opportunity for
Nigerian youths  to elect the leaders of their choice. “Considering the significant population of the youths in the country
and the 51 per cent that are voters, there is opportunity for youths to
make their voices hard in this election.’’ The ambassador advised the Security personnel to demonstrate
neutrality, while stressing the need for independence of INEC and the
judiciary. Mr Wilson Manji of European Centre for Electoral Support (ECES),
representing Youth Votes Count Campus Outreach Documentary, described
the programme as a success. Manji said that the programme which was held in different tertiary
institutions across the country encouraged a lot of students to register
for their PVCs. Speaking on behalf of IYA, Ijeoma Sorochi , advised Nigerian youths
to work together and vote for the right candidates in the forthcoming
elections. Sorochi also urged them to vote for candidates’ capacity and what
such candidate could contribute to national development in terms of
education and technology advancement. “When the nation’s systems are working it means the future is
assured.”  You don’t need to sell your votes just because you need a
short time need.’’ President of the National Youth Council, Mr Bello Shagari, said that
said that the council was already engaging Nigerian youths for peaceful
elections. He advised them to shun fake news and vote buying, saying, “ if you
sell your votes you are selling your future and at a cheap price”. Highlights of the occasion include the presentation of INCE Award of
Excellence some INEC Youth Ambassadors for mobilising support for voter
education and peaceful election for 2019 general elections. The recipients of the awards include Innocent Idibia popularly known as “Tu Baba”,  IYIAGA Africa, ECES and the EU Ambassador. Idibia commended INEC for the award, saying that it would encourage
him to continue in his advocacy for peaceful elections in the
country.(NAN)