By Leonard Okachie  Uturu (Abia) –   Prof. Uche Ikonne, the Vice Chancellor of the Abia State University, Uturu (ABSU), has advocated the use of “a more scientific approach” in dealing with the demands for university teachers’ welfare than strikes.
Ikonne said this on Monday in his office, while briefing newsmen on the activities lined up for the 26th convocation of the university, slated for Saturday.
He said that the resort to strike in resolving ASUU/Federal Government’s disagreements was harmful to the nation’s university education.
He said that strikes had made it impossible for students to graduate in record time, saying, “strikes make students to stay beyond the stipulated period for their graduation.”
Ikonne said that the university had benefitted immensely from the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND) intervention in research and procurement of equipment.
He expressed joy that one of the 50 approved research topics from the over 200 applications to the National Research Fund, which attracted N30 million, came from ABSU.
He further said that with the intervention of TETFUND, the university succeeded in procuring heavy equipment for the Engineering Department.
He also said that the institution’s Micro-biology Laboratory had been equipped with the state-of-the-art facilities.
Ikonne said that the institution had achieved full accreditation from the National Universities Commission and Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria for its Medical School.
He also said that security in the university had improved tremendously, adding that there had been absolute peace in the institution.
The vice chancellor also diffused the speculation that he had borowed so much money from banks to pay salaries and execute projects in the university.
“We have not borrowed any money. Go to banks and verify,” he said, adding that borrowing money would require going to the Debt Management Office.
He dismissed as spurious the speculation that his achievements, including the regular payment of salaries, were made possible through heavy borrowing by his administration.
“I made attempts to borrow from the bank but the bank refused and I quarrelled with the officials. That is the truth and it is verifiable.
“I did not inherit any debt from my predecessor and will not transfer any to my successor,” Ikonne said.
He attributed the speculation to the handiwork of those who did not believe that the university could make visible success under his watch.
He said that the payment of salaries, promoting workers as and when due and ensuring uninterrupted academic activities for three sessions were made possible through judicious use of the available resources.
“There is no secret about how I have achieved the feat,” he said, adding that heads of tertiary institutions should place their priorities right.
He advised academic institutions in the state against employing more personnel than they could conveniently pay.
According to him, the core mandate of tertiary institutions is to develop critical manpower for development and not employment.
Ikonne gave a statistics of the graduating students to include 18 First Class, 551 Second Class Upper, 2,532 Second Class Lower, 365 Third Class, Seven Passes, 52 Post Graduate and 115 Doctor of Philosophy. (NAN)