By Chiazo Ogbolu Lagos – An Information Technology expert, Mr Jide Awe, on Monday urged data processors to ensure adequate security of people’s data with regard to online processing of personal data. Awe, who made the call in an
interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos, spoke in
commemoration of the ‘Data Privacy Day’. NAN reports that the Data Privacy
Day is an international day aimed at raising awareness and promoting
privacy and data protection best practices on Jan. 28 every year. “In this digital day, the society
that we are living in, now do virtually everything online and in the
process individuals information are stored. “Data privacy is all about the
information that one is giving to a provider as a service, maybe through
buying something or to the bank or wherever, should be kept private
from the whole world. “This is because it can be abused if
it gets to the wrong hands and so it behoves organisations processing
your transaction to have data security. “Data privacy is essentially for the
safety of people sharing their data online so that it does not get to
scrupulous hands and also to ensure that collectors of data have the
necessary security so that one’s data are properly handled,” he said. Awe said that collectors of data
must give an assurance in form of data policy to those they were taking
their information on the website that information they were collecting
would not be given to third party. He said that: “These assurances are necessary because being in an internet age, data is essential. “So we need the assurance that while we are doing those things online, we are also being protected and our data kept well. “Securing of data is essential to
ensure that individual’s data are not exploited in a negative way and it
is the processors of data that should ensure that with adequate privacy
policy. “Data processors must also inform those they are collecting their data when they are collecting it and how they will use it.’’ Awe commended the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) for launching guidelines on data privacy.