Enugu – Dr Emeka Ononamadu, INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Enugu has advised residents to exercise their civic responsibility in the forthcoming general election. Ononamadu gave the advice in Enugu on Saturday during a one day Political Enlightenment and Sensitization Seminar organised by the Catholic Diocese of Enugu in collaboration with Justice, Development, Peace Commission Caritas (JDPC). The seminar has its theme ” Whither Nigeria Election and we are the ones that elect our leaders so they are indebted to us”. According to Ononamadu, it was the populace who usually asked INEC, how ready are they to conduct the election, INEC is now asking the electorate how ready are they to come out and exercise their civic responsibility. ”We have up to 1.9 million registered voters in Enugu but the question now remain, how many will cast their vote on the day. ”It is painful that people keep complaining of INEC exercise when 264 ,000 Permanent Voter’s Card are still uncollected. Earlier, the Bishop of the Enugu Catholic Diocese, Most Rev. Callistus Onaga, said that the gathering was the sixth national seminar in the state. ”We are here to discuss the way forward for the country as the election is around the corner and the choice of good leaders is in our hands,” Onaga said. Also, the chairman of the gathering, Dr Nduka Eya, an elder statesman said that politicians were no more afraid of voters as they could easily have their way into power. The octogenarian said that the recent suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) and replacing him with another had never happened in the history of the nation’s democracy. ”It is high time we won back our democratic government from our leaders because we are the ones that play the game while they take the glory”. In a keynote address, Prof. Uzodinma Nwala , the Founding father of Alaigbo Development Foundation urged the people to always strive to combine learning, character with leadership skills. According to him, all the system in the country had broken down even the National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) scheme which was introduced with the aim of fostering unity in the country. Nwala said that Nigerians needed leaders who would be upright in discharging their duty with equal right and justice. Mrs Anthonia Ejenike, a lawyer, said that the country would be better once the country begun to recognise and accept the judicial interpretation. Ejenike however, condemned the suspension of the former CJN, Justice Onnoghen and called on voters to avoid sentiment in voting for the candidate of their choice. (NAN)