By Emmanuel Mogbede Abuja – Mr Rotimi Amaechi, Director-General, All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign Council, has charged electorate in Kaduna State to remain vigilant after casting their votes on election days to avoid rigging. Amaechi, who gave the charge on Friday in Kaduna at the APC
Presidential Campaign rally, said that the electorates should remain
vigilant, before, during and after casting their votes. “Don’t just vote and go home to sleep, stay and guard your votes to
avoid rigging because the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has a rigging
machine,“ he said. He further charged APC members in the state to embark on door-to-door
campaigns ahead of the February election using the party’s achievements
in all sectors. This, he said, was critical to ensure the re–election of President Muhammadu Buhari and the election of all the party’s candidates at all levels. Amaechi maintained that President Muhammadu Buhari had transformed
the country in all sectors within the last three and half years since he
came into government and deserves a second term in office. Speaking at the rally, Gov. Nasir El-Rufa of Kaduna State, said the state would deliver 80 per cent votes to President Buhari, adding that Kaduna is fully APC. He, however, said that the visit of Alhaji Abubakar Atiku, PDP
Presidential Candidate for the forthcoming election, to the United
States of America was not an achievement and should not be celebrated as
the PDP was presently doing. El-Rufa’i stressed that Atiku`s visit to the U.S was a none issue and should not be celebrated. He added that Atiku should instead be explaining to Nigerians why he
had not gone to America for 12 years rather than going to report to
American government before coming to seek for the votes of Nigerians. Mr Adams Oshiomhole, the APC National Chairman, while speaking, said
the APC government would find a lasting solution to electricity problems
in Kaduna State and other parts of the country. He presented the party’s flag to its candidates at all levels in the coming elections and charged the people of the state to continue to work for APC victory at the coming elections. (NAN)