The philosopher George Santayana made the evergreen truism: “Those
who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.” Many a
Nigerian seem never to remember the past. It is a penchant that results
in horrible consequences. Nigeria’s political history is replete
with coup plotting army generals who exploit corruption and seeming
frustration with court and legal processes as justification to truncate
democracy and to contrive legitimacy for dictatorships they impose on
the country. Again and again, each dictatorship delivers worse
corruption, impunity and terrible governance. Yet, some citizens blind
to these lessons of history, applaud the disdainful truncating of
democratic processes until this day. To put this in perspective,
let’s look at excerpts from two speeches made 25 years apart, by army
generals, Ibrahim Babangida on June 12, 1993 and Muhammadu Buhari on
January 25, 2019. Get the full speeches and take note of the generals’
references to corruption and impatience with court processes. Yet, the
irony is that they exploit contrived court rulings to murder democracy.
Read and ponder: * Excerpts from the speech by General Ibrahim
Badamosi Babangida on June 12, 1993 to annul the 1993 presidential
election won by Chief MKO Abiola: “It is against the foregoing
background that the administration became highly concerned when these
political conflicts and breaches were carried to the court. It must be
acknowledged that the performance of the judiciary on this occasion was
less than satisfactory. The judiciary has been the bastion of the hopes
and liberties of our citizens. “Therefore, when it became clear
that the courts had become intimidated and subjected to the manipulation
of the political process, and vested interests, then the entire
political system was in clear dangers. This administration could not
continue to watch the various high courts carry on their long drawn out
processes and contradictory decisions while the nation slides into
chaos. “It was under this circumstance that the National Defence
and Security Council decided that it is in the supreme interest of law
and order, political stability and peace that the presidential election
be annulled.” * Excerpts from the speech by General Muhammadu
Buhari on January 25, 2019 to suspend the Chief Justice of Nigeria,
Justice Walter Onnoghen, head of one of the three arms of government: “Instead,
the nation has been treated to the sordid spectacle of a judicial game
of wits in which the Chief Justice of Nigeria and his legal team have
made nonsense of the efforts of the Code of Conduct Tribunal to hear the
allegation on merit and conclude the trial as quickly as possible
considering the nature of the times in which we live. “It is
against this background that I have received the Order of the Code of
Conduct Tribunal directing me to suspend the Chief Justice pending final
determination of the cases against him. It also explains why I am not
only complying immediately, but with some degree of relief for the
battered sensibilities of ordinary Nigerians whose patience must have
become severely over-taxed by these anomalies. “In line with
this administration’s avowed respect for the Rule of Law, I have
wholeheartedly obeyed the Order of the Code of Conduct Tribunal dated
23rd January 2019. “Accordingly, I hereby suspend the Honourable
Mr. Justice Walter Nkanu Samuel Onnoghen, GCON as the Chief Justice of
Nigeria pending final determination of the case against him at the Code
of Conduct Tribunal.” Note that both the supposed court order
which annulled the 1993 presidential election and Code of Conduct
Tribunal order that suspended the CJN were not given in open court but
were concoctions brewed and obtained under the sulfuric stench of
judicial banditry. Worse, Danladi Umar the CCT chairman who ordered the
suspension is himself facing corruption charges in court for receiving
bribes. It is a long, long road for Nigeria. The wolf in sheep
clothing is still a wolf. The tin hat who removes khaki uniform for
civilian agbada is still a tin hat. 