By Hilary Akalugwu Nsukka – Prof. Jonah Onuoha of the Department of Political Science, University of Nigeria Nsukka, has described the withdrawal of Dr Oby Ezekwesili from the presidential race at eleventh hour as embarrassing and suspicious. Onuoha, who is the Director of America Studies in UNN, made this
assertion in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in
Nsukka on Friday. According to him, for Ezekwesili, who was the presidential candidate
of Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN), to withdraw from the race
less than one month to the poll means there was another party she was
working for even before she picked the ticket. “The presidential candidate of ACPN withdrawal from presidential race on Thursday to me is embarrassing and suspicious. “Her withdrawal at dying minute is a big blow and serious setback to
party faithful that have been campaigning for her for Feb. 16
presidential election,” he said. He said the swift reaction of the national working committee of the
party was an indication that Ezekwesili did not consult the party
leadership before making her decision public. If the presidential candidate has no hidden agenda why didn’t she
inform the party leadership of her plan to step down from the
presidential race? “I know she did not wake one morning to take the decision of her
withdrawal, she has been thinking about it at least for the past one
month,” he said. The professor of political science said Ezekwesili’s excuse that she
withdrawn from the presidential race to enable her to join a coalition
that would stop either All Progressives Congress or Peoples Democratic
Party from winning the Feb. 16 presidential poll was untrue. “If she has known she has a coalition to join, why did she pick the
ticket of ACPN, thereby stopping other party members with genuine
ambition from being presidential candidate of the party. “What will she tell all support groups and individuals who have made
financial contributions to her presidential bid, is she going to refund
them having disappointed them,” he asked. Onuoha said what Ezekwesili did have demoralised the high hope some
women have in the fact that by God’s grace a woman would for the first
time emerge as the president of this country. “This is a serious disappointment to Nigerian women and as such
Ezekwesili should tender unreserved apology to women in the country,” he
said. It would be recalled that, Dr Oby Ezekwesili the presidential
candidate of ACPN had on Thursday announced her withdrawal from the
presidential race, which she said was to enable her to join a coalition
that would stop either APC or PDP from winning the Feb. 16 presidential
poll