By Emmanuel Mogbede Abuja – The Buhari Support Orgnaistion (BSO), United Kingdom chapter says the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari in the coming election consolidate the progress made so far. Mr Joseph Adebola, leader of BSO UK, said this in a statement, a copy
of which was made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on
Sunday in Abuja According to him, Buhari`s re-election in the presidential election
slated for Feb, 16 would guarantee the advancement of the country to the
next level and make it the envy of other nations. He said the chapter in its bid to boost the re-election campaigns of
Buhari, recently inaugurated five E-flyers and jingles in the country`s
major languages. Adebola said the jingles would be released to major Nigerian radio
stations across the 36 states of the federation including the Federal
Capital Territory (FCT). He said the idea was to further educate the people, especially, those
at the grassroots on the achievements of Buhari and why he should be
re-elected. According to him, inauguration of the flyers and jingles is just a tip of the iceberg in the BSO campaign strategy. Adebola enjoined Nigerians to come out enmass on Feb. 16 to re-elect
Buhari for continuity, adding that he deserves a second term in office. He said BSO was poised to sensitise and educate Nigerians on the need
to re-elect Buhari and APC candidates at the coming elections. Adebola noted that the Buhari administration which met an almost
empty treasury on assumption of office, had managed to achieve a lot
with minimal resources through prudent management and even
redistribution of our commonwealth. “This is through the Social Investment Programme and blocking
loopholes created by previous administrations through which our common
patrimony were either pilfered or looted to enrich political allies. “Buhari and APC have managed to get Nigeria out of recession in
record time and are steering the ship of governance steadily toward a
progressive and prosperous future for the country,’’ he said. Adebola further said that the achievements of the Buhari-led administration entitled him to a second term in office. According to him, the administration has banned fraudulent foreign
vessel lifting of crude oil and increased foreign investment and
electricity generation in the country. He added that through the Treasury Single Account (TSA), the
administration had blocked revenue leakages and embarked on several
social investment programmes in the interest of the common man. Adebola said the administration had also been able to restore the
dignity of Nigerians in the international community and had drastically
reduced the menace of insurgency in the country. He, however, said there was still more to be done to move the country to the next level. According to him, it is only Buhari and the APC government that has
the capability and the political will to take Nigeria to the Promised
Land.