By Temitope Ponle Abuja – The National Association of Seadogs (NAS), also known as Pirates Confraternity, has called the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to engage more with political parties and stakeholders in the electoral process. Mr John Okey, Director, Publicity and Public Relations, NAS, made the
call in an interview during the association’s election sensitisation
campaign in Abuja, tagged “Our Votes Count” . The campaign held, under their Citizens Summit initiative, was to
reiterate the importance of citizens’ participation in the forthcoming
elections. Reacting to INEC’s regulations and guidelines for the conduct of the
elections, Okey said the commission needed to engage with all
stakeholders across board. “I listened to the interview of the INEC Chairman  few days ago and
he was justifying the electoral guidelines, saying it is for the people
and they have decided what is best for the people. “You do not do that. You need to engage across board. The political
parties are actually inspired by stakeholders and they need to be
engaged; it is about participation. “The more people participate in elections, the easier the work is for INEC,” he said. He also said a survey carried out by the association during several
campaigns showed a considerable level of voter apathy, adding that the
campaigns organised were to encourage Nigerians to vote. “This is a follow up to previous campaigns. With this campaign, we
are letting people know that their votes must count and it is recorded. “It is a process and you must take responsibility to make sure that
from the beginning to the end, the process is complete,’ he added. Also speaking, Mr Frank Okafor, National Vice President, Northern
Nigeria, NAS, said the campaigns held would be sustained beyond the
elections, noting that the association stood as a voice for the
voiceless. “Citizens Summit is an initiative of the NAS where we intend, on a
non-partisan basis, to have dialogue with elected officials and with the
citizens. “We have members who are in government on a non-NAS supported
political platform; they identify with any political party of their
choice and aspire and take position. “Because they belong to this association, we have a code of conduct
that we can hold them accountable beyond the members of the association. “So we try to build a bridge between promises made by officials and
the citizens who the promises were made to; we demand to see results and
we continuously engage,” he stressed. Mr Stanley Nwodo, President of the association, Abuja branch, said
that the campaigns were carried out nationwide to ensure that Nigerians
were politically aware of the importance of shunning election vices. “We are going to several places to inform citizens; we printed out
flyers; we have jingles in English and Pidgin on the essence of coming
out to vote because you cannot complain when you do not vote. “We want to let citizens know that through their votes, they can hold their leaders accountable,” he said. Nwodo called on Nigerians to collect their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) before the deadline of Feb. 8.