By Chijioke Okoronkwo Abuja – The Kano State Judiciary in collaboration with the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC), has inaugurated a Small Claims Court in Kano, the Presidency said in a statement on Thursday in Abuja. The statement signed by Jumoke Oduwole, Senior Special Assistant to
the President on Industry, Trade and Investment, Office of the Vice
President, said the court would handle disputes for Small and Medium
Enterprises (SMEs). According to Oduwole, the court is in line with enabling business
environment reforms across all arms of government, aimed at making
Nigeria a progressively easier place to do business. She said that the objective of the court was to improve the judicial
process by providing easy access to a cost-effective and fast resolution
of debt recovery disputes, involving small claims of N5 million and
below. “All claims which are filed at the Small Claims Court are expected to
be heard and judgment delivered within a maximum period of 60 days,
with a further 30 days for enforcement. “Only one adjournment is allowed under exceptional circumstances. In
addition, magistrates are to hear matters daily to conclusion, and are
enjoined to promote, encourage and facilitate negotiation among parties. “The court also encourages self-representation, and adheres to strict timelines for following key specified court events. “The Small Claims Court is regulated by the Practice Directions on
Small Claims 2018 issued by the Chief Judge of Kano State, pursuant to
the Magistrate Court Law of 2018. “The launch took place on Jan. 24, at the Judicial Service
Commission, Audu Bako Secretariat, Kano State, and was attended by the
acting Chief Judge, Attorney-General, Judges of the High Court,
Magistrates, Judicial Officers and members of the bar,’’ she said. Oduwole said that PEBEC would continue its collaboration with the
Kano State Government, including the Kano State Judiciary, on business
climate reforms for the state. PEBEC was established in 2016 to oversee Nigeria’s business climate reform agenda, and it is chaired by the vice president. PEBEC’s model aligns with global best practice and includes a strong
performance tracking element, that is measured by the World Bank Ease of
Doing Business Index (DBI), which is reported annually. The DBI is an annual ranking that objectively assesses prevailing
business climate conditions across 190 countries, based on 10 Ease of
Doing Business (EoDB) indicators. The index offers comparative insights based on private sector
validation of reforms delivered in the two largest commercial cities in
countries with a population higher than 100 million. For Nigeria, the DBI tracks both Lagos and Kano States, being the two largest business cities in the country. The reform area/indicator known as Enforcing Contracts focuses
mainly on the reforms of the judiciary and how cases are handled in the
Small Claims Court within the state – from filing to delivery and
enforcement of judgement.