By Bolaji Buhari Lagos – A former Secretary-General of the Commonwealth, Chief Emeka Anyaoku, on Tuesday urged the Federal Government and the relevant institutions to ensure that the February and March elections are free and fair. Anyaoku gave the advice while speaking at a symposium to unveil the new logo of The Nigerian Tribune in Lagos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the theme of the
symposium was “Electoral Integrity, Legitimacy of Democratic
Institutions and Good Governance”. Anyaoku said the expectations of the people and indeed the international community were that the elections would be credible. He urged the government, particularly the Independent National
Electoral Commission (INEC), the security agencies and other relevant
institutions to meet the expectations. Anyaoku said the rest of the world was keenly watching Nigeria and
the conduct would determine how the country would be viewed and treated
by the international community. “As our country is preparing for the general elections in two weeks
time, I have three observations to address the Nigerian government, INEC
and others. “First, Nigeria’s friends and the whole of the international
community are watching. Watching the behaviour of Federal Government and
its agencies, including especially the police, the army and the other
law-enforcement agents, to see how far we respect the country’s
constitution, the rule of law and the obligation to act well in playing
their roles in respect of the elections. “From my long experience in international politics, I must say no
country is an island unto itself, especially in our increasingly
globalising world. “Therefore, our Nigerian government, like other governments all over
the world, while of course guarding its sovereignty, should pay heed to
the views of the international community. “Otherwise, the country would return to the pariah status which happily exited in 1999 when it once more embraced democracy. “My second observation is that INEC had earned deserved compliments
for its commendable handling of the last gubernatorial elections in Ondo
and Anambra States. “But it must be admitted that it attracted criticisms for its conducting subsequent similar elections in both Ekiti and Osun. “I urge INEC to remain aware of the fact that the credibility of the
results of our forthcoming elections will depend on the level of
impartiality and transparency it demonstrates in ensuring all aspects of
the elections are free and fair, thereby making the results to truly
represent the will of the people. “Indeed, the image and standing of our country within the
international community will be significantly affected by how INEC and
the Federal Government as a whole are seen to behave in all matters
relating to the elections,“ he said. Anyaoku decried what he called the debasement of lives by incessant
killings in the country, saying the problem should be tackled
holistically The former diplomat said a return to true fiscal federalism was imperative to move the country forward. He commended African Newspapers PLC, publishers of Nigerian Tribune for its great contributions to the media industry. Anyaoku said the contributions of the media organisation to
nation-building were as note-worthy as those of its founder, late Chief
Obafemi Awolowo. He said he had no doubt the unveiling of a new logo by the newspaper
would herald another chapter of service to the people and the nation. In her address, Chairman of the media organisation, Dr Tokunbo
Awolowo-Dosunmu, said Nigerian Tribune had played its part in
nation-building since it was founded 70years ago. She said the unveiling of the new logo was in continuation of the
newspaper’s long-standing vision to be the voice of the people and
advocate of a better Nigeria. NAN reports that prominent Nigerian including Bishop Matthew Kukah,
who delivered the keynote address; a leader of Afenifere, Chief Ayo
Adebanjo; a former governor of Ogun State, Otunba Gbenga Daniel: a
former Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Mr Femi Pedro: and Convener of
Save Nigeria Group, Pastor Tunde Bakare were present at the occasion. Presidential candidate of Young Democratic Party, Prof. Kingsley
Moghalu and the Peoples Democracy Party (PDP) governorship candidate in
Lagos State, Mr Jimi Agbaje, were also present at the occasion where the
new logo of the newspaper was unveiled. (NAN)