Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former governor of Sokoto
State, Attahiru Bafarawa, has revealed how he manipulated the presidential
primary of the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) against Rochas Okorocha to
favour Muhammadu Buhari in 2003. Sundiata
Post recalls that Buhari eventually got the party’s nomination but lost to Olusegun
Obasanjo in the presidential election. Bafarawa,
who was doubling as ANPP’s chairman then, said Okorocha was set to pick the
ANPP presidential ticket following a mock primary conducted before the
nomination convention. According
to him, Okorocha came first, winning 27 of the 36 states and the FCT, while
Buhari could only win five. He made
these revelations in a new book which was launched on Thursday in Abuja,
titled: ‘Politics as Dashed Hopes in Nigeria’, written by Auwala Anwar, PhD,
and former special assistant to the president on FCTA from 2004-2007. Anwar
narrated how Bafarawa cajoled the state chairmen of the party to support Buhari
after they had said they would not vote for him in the primary. He
wrote: “Buhari was not even able to secure all the 7 votes from his
geo-political zone (north-west). When Bafarawa saw how dismally Buhari’s
performance had been, he not only suspended the meeting for a break but also
requested the state chairmen to stay behind for some announcements. He later
cajoled the chairmen and explained to them that his preference was for Buhari
to emerge the winner. In response, they all assured him that, although they
were ready to do whatever he requested, as their leader, they were still not
inclined to vote for Buhari. “On enquiry,
the chairmen explained that it would be foolish for them to vote for someone
who did not even know their names. They charged that whenever he came across
them, the best he could do to address them was to use generic terms of “Mister”
or “Alhaji,” depending on whether a chairman came from the South or the North,
respectively. They sensed the futility of supporting someone who did not bother
to know them while he was seeking for their support.” The
preview copy of the book, published by Safari Books, quoted Bafarawa as saying
in an interview with the author: “I appealed to the chairmen to change their
mind because of the prospects of the party at the polls if it were Buhari that
emerged as our flag-bearer. I also directed one of my staff, Abdullahi Bida, a
relation to Buba Galadima, to give each of them five hundred thousand naira
(500,000). I later called General Buhari to meet me at the Niger State
Governor’s Lodge, where I was staying. He came around 4 a.m. together with Sule
Hamma. “I
informed him about the efforts I had made to turn the table against Rochas. I
also explained to him that I had arranged for a private meeting between him and
the state chairmen, later at 2 p.m. Furthermore, I begged him to be patient
with all the criticisms and the complaints they would lodge against him. “Additionally,
I gave him five million naira to give them to fuel their vehicles back to their
respective states. He collected the money and thanked me for all the trouble
that I took to see him through. He later handed over the money to them at the
end of their meeting.” The
author continued in the book: “The rigging of the mock election in favour of
Buhari was not without resistance. Some of the southern aspirants, who learnt
of the private meeting organised between Buhari and their state chairmen,
invaded the venue and accused Bafarawa of nepotism. He responded by reminding
them how he also arranged for similar meetings between some of them and the
state chairmen.” Southern
aspirants withdrew from the convention, including Nnia Nwodo, now president of
Ohanaeze Ndigbo, in protest. Nwodo
famously made his “my heart bleeds for Nigeria” speech while pulling out from
the race at the convention ground.