By Emmanuella Anokam Abuja – The Construction Skills Training and Development Project (C-STEmp), has called on the Federal Government to embark on massive infrastructural projects to boost job creation in the country. Mr Samson Opaluwah, Chairman, C-STEmp 2019 Construction Artisans
Awards Technical Committee, made the call on Wednesday in Abuja, at the
closing ceremony of the Artisans Award and Job Skills Expo, organised by
C-STEmp. According to him, infrastructural development, in the form of
intensive labour projects by the government would create job
opportunities for artisans and youths in the country. “The government should open doors for our indigenous manpower to
manage and gain employment through massive infrastructural projects. “Investment in public infrastructural development should remain key interventions by the government. “Where the artisans are not experienced enough, they should be given
opportunity to learn so that they can take charge of  infrastructural
management in the country. “No foreigner will come and develop our country for us on a
sustainable basis, it is only we that have interest in the country will
develop it,” he said. He said that the government should also take the construction
artisans to the next level, in readiness to compete on the global
platform and attain self- sufficiency in the construction industry. However, he commended the government for the N-Power programme,
adding that it has boosted employment, expertise and supported nation
building by developing the skills of artisans. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that C-STEmp in its bid to
promote creativity, innovation and craftsmanship, conceived the
Construction Artisans Awards as a strategy to generate interest in the
trades. Mr Lawrence Gabriel, Programme Manager, C-STEmp noted that skills
competitions among the artisans in the  trades were carried out in the
state, regional, then the national level. ” Artisans from the trades from each zone including FCT were selected for the grand finale,” he said. He said that the skills competition and award aimed at showcasing the
knowledge, skills and experience the artisans have acquired over the
years in order to be celebrated by employers, friends and families. This he said would equally afford employers who wished to improve
their performance the opportunity to identify and engage the best. NAN reports that the high point of the event, was handing over of
N1.5 million to Mr Ahmed Yusuf, electrical set category artisan from
North Central for best performance, while N500, 000 was given to the
overall female best Mrs Idris Selina. (NAN)