BY Muftau Adediran Akure – The Ondo State Government has pledged to provide the enabling environment required to encourage investment with a view to developing the nation’s capital market. Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu made the pledge on Friday in Akure while
declaring open the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) one-day
enlightenment programme on “E-Dividend and Investment Initiative at
Developing the Nigeria Capital Market.” Akeredolu, who was represented by Mr Ifedayo Abegunde, Secretary to
the State Government, said that people would be encouraged to invest
“when there is economic growth in the land.” “Also, the political climate will definitely remain stable enough to
enable stakeholders recover their investment within a reasonable period. “As we are all aware, investor’s interest is being centered on three
broad objectives, namely: Income; Growth and Safety. We will ensure
these three objectives are not missing in our dear state. “The objective of this enlightenment is to give alternative economic
condition to civil servants and other stakeholders to decide the best
time to buy or sell shares/securities,” the governor said. He explained that the enlightenment campaign would also grant
opportunity to prospective investors to be acquainted with the general
principle and policy of “buy low and sell high”. “Therefore, I will like to appeal to you all to give this short
enlightenment campaign the serious attention it deserves so that we
would have an improved, effective and quality investment initiatives in
the state. “It will also give us the opportunity to put in our best to make sure
that state derives maximum benefits from investment opportunities in
Nigeria,” Akeredolu said Earlier, Mr Edward Okolo, Zonal Director, SEC, said that the essence
of the programme was to enlighten the people of Ondo State on e-dividend
processes and the opportunities in the capital market. Okolo, who expressed satisfaction on the turnout of participants,
urged people of the state to key into the capital market “because it is a
platform of growth and prosperity.” According to him, the e-dividend will afford people of the state
opportunity to bring their moribund companies into the market, and this
will in turn provide employment for the teeming unemployed youths in the
state. He said that the gathering would not only afford participants the
opportunity to be well informed about investment in shares and stocks,
but it would also help individuals to do the needful whenever
opportunity opens for investment. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that participants were drawn
from major stakeholders in the Capital Market, including civil
servants, representatives of investment companies, representatives of
Ondo State Chamber of Commerce and Industries and representatives of
Ondo State Cooperative Thrifts. Others are agricultural societies, representatives of finance houses,
representatives of Nigeria para military, representatives of major
market women associations and the National Union of Road Transport
Workers (NURTW).