By Deborah Coker Abudu (Edo) –  Sen. Mathew Urhoghide, the PDP candidate for Edo South Senatorial seat, says he will address the visible underdevelopment, hunger and suffering among the people of the area if re-elected.
Urhoghide said this on Friday in Abudu, headquarters of Orhionmwon Local Government Area of the state, at the Peoples Democratic Party’s campaign rally.
He said that citizens of the country were being deprived of the dividends of democracy and good life by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).
According to the senator, the forthcoming general elections would provide an opportunity for the citizens to say “enough is enough.”
He said that whereas the vast majority of the electorate was hungry, deprived and suffering, the collective patrimony of the citizens was being enjoyed by only a privileged few.
The senator said that in view of this, the people should re-elect him and all PDP candidates for a renewed and better life for all and to have unhindered benefits of democracy.
Urhoghide, who is the Chairman of Senate Committee on Public Accounts, used the occasion to tell the people his achievements in the senate in the last three and half years.
He told the people that he had sponsored a bill seeking to upgrade the College of Education at Abudu to a Federal University of Education.
The senator said that the bill had scaled through the second reading at the red chambers.
Meanwhile the PDP Chairman in the state, Chief Dan Orbih, said there was the need for Nigerians to vote for the party’s candidates at all level because they would not betray the people’s trust.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the PDP campaign train was also at Ehor, Uhumwonde Local Governnent Area to solicit for votes.
Mrs Uwa Osunbor, PDP candidate for Orhionmwon/Uhunmwode Federal Constituency and the 2016 Governorship Candidate of party, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, took turns to present PDP’s manifesto at Ehor.
They urged eligible voters not to make wrong choices in the forthcoming elections.
The team later visited the palace of the Enogie of Ehor, HRH Daniel Igiehon who noted that the senator had fulfilled his electoral promises to his constituents.
The traditional ruler commended the senator for constructing a modern maternity centre in the area.
He noted that the electorate in Uhunmwode “will not vote for people who have privatised the common wealth of the people.”
Igiehon prayed for the candidates and members of the party and urged them to implement policies that would attract development to rural areas. (NAN)