Enugu    –       The All Progressives Congress, APC, Governorship candidate in Enugu State, Sen. Ayogu Eze has urged the people of the state to embrace love and peace in 2019. In his New Year message entitled, “It is well with Enugu State”, Eze said that the state would experience a new lease of prosperity and even development when his government took off in May 2019. He assured the people that his government would restore the people’s confidence in governance by embarking on a number of people-oriented programmes and projects. The governorship candidate urged them to pray to God to ensure that negative forces did not thwart the people’s will to install a government that would work for them. Eze promised to create jobs through innovative re-engineering of the agricultural and housing sectors urging the people to come out in their numbers to cast their votes for President Muhammad Buhari and the APC. According to him, the APC will wipe the tears of the people by putting in place best governance practices in the state. He promised to pay workers in the state a living wage that would be commensurate with their contributions and sacrifices in building the state. Eze assured pensioners that their agony was over as they would be paid their entitlements promptly. The onetime senator also promised to restore within his first six months in office community lands that had been stolen from them without due process by government. “Security and welfare of the people is the primary purpose of government, therefore, it is criminal and unconscionable to dispossess the people of their land,” he said. Eze urged the people to be patient as his government would restore their rights and privileges that had been stolen by the outgoing government. He also promised to restructure the education sector by making education compulsory up to the secondary school level. “Vocational education will receive a pride of place as a means of empowering the people and restoring our artisanal advantage that has been eroded by neglect over the years,” he said. Eze also promised to rebuild the totally comatose health sector of the state, adding that he would make healthcare free for women and children. “Healthcare is fundamental to the well being of any society. To prosper, the citizens of any society must be healthy and clear headed. “We shall focus on rebuilding our broken down health institutions and introducing innovations that will make Enugu a compulsory stop for health tourism in Africa,” Eze pledged. The candidate described 2019 as a `year when true peace will return to Enugu State’ and asked the people to shun violence and rigging during the coming elections but instead to stand firm and ensure that their votes counted at the end of the day. He thanked the people of the state for declaring en masse for the APC and assured them that the APC government in Enugu State would change the fortunes of the state within its first year in office.