Vienna – The UN nuclear watchdog policing Iran’s deal with major powers said on Wednesday that attempts to pressure it on inspections were “counter-productive and extremely harmful”. Israel, which vehemently opposes the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, has
called on the International Atomic Energy Agency to visit what it says
is a “secret atomic warehouse” and other locations in Iran. The administration of U.S. President Donald Trump, who has pulled his country out of the deal, has made similar calls. The IAEA has bristled at such calls but used only guarded language in
public, saying it does not take information at face value and assesses
it independently. It said that it only send inspectors to a specific location when necessary. In a speech to staff on Wednesday, however, IAEA Chief, Yukiya Amano, was blunt. “If our credibility is thrown into question and, in particular, if
attempts are made to micro-manage or put pressure on the agency in
nuclear verification, that is counter-productive and extremely harmful,”
he said. He did not elaborate on the attempts or those behind them. The IAEA is policing the restrictions placed on Iran’s nuclear
activities under the deal, which also lifted international sanctions
against Tehran. Amano reiterated that Iran was continuing to keep its end of the bargain. Trump on Wednesday called top U.S. intelligence chiefs “extremely
passive and naive” on Iran, a day after they contradicted his views in
congressional testimony. Amano was also more direct in making the case for his agency to be in
charge of inspections in North Korea in the event of any political
agreement being reached on that country’s nuclear activities. “The IAEA is the only international organisation that can verify the
nuclear programme of the DPRK,” said Amano, using the acronym of the
country’s official name — the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. Amano, a Japanese diplomat, has previously said his agency is best placed to do that job. It has not been granted access to North Korea since 2009, when Pyongyang threw out its inspectors. “As far as the nuclear programme of the DPRK is concerned, we remain
ready to play an essential verification role if a political agreement is
reached among countries concerned,” he said. (Reuters/NAN)