By Habibu Harisu Sokoto, – The National Orientation Agency (NOA) has embarked on partnership with the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) to educate drivers on proper voting process. The agency said the effort is geared towards reducing high cases of voided votes ahead of the 2019 general elections. Speaking at a public awareness campaign at the Sokoto Central Motor
Park on Tuesday, the NOA Director in Sokoto State, Alhaji Maude Danchadi
noted that the aim was to avoid the cthe high cases of voided votes
recorded during the 2015 elections. Danchadi urged other stakeholders in the community to educate people on proper voting pattern especially in the rural areas. He emphasised the need for increased stakeholders’ partnership to
enlighten voters on proper voting, to ensure that their votes count. “ The cause of rejected votes has been attributed to lack of adequate
continuous voter education especially in the rural areas by political
parties and other stakeholders. “This is why NOA mobilised its workers across the 774 local
government areas in the federation to educate people on reducing
challenges of voided votes, peaceful conduct of elections and dangers of
vote buying,’’ the director said. According to him, necessary measures have been designed by the
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and other stakeholders
to ensure that all votes count. He assured that the government, security agencies and all relevant
organisations are ready for peaceful conduct of elections and urged the
electorate to adhere to regulations. Also, Mr Ahmad Musa, the representative of the Resident Electoral
Commissioner (REC), Sokoto State, assured that adequate arrangements
have been made for sensitisation as well as smooth conduct of elections. Musa demonstrated to the participants, all the stages of proper voting and ways that rendered votes invalid. He also urged the electorate to collect their Permanent Voters Cards
(PVCs) from their respective wards as distribution had commenced at
wards levels, to ensure mass collection. Responding, the  Deputy Chairman of Sokoto State NURTW, Alhaji Ahmad
Danmalam assured of the union’s cooperation on sensitising voters within
its domain. He also said  the union will play efficient role in the transportation of personnel and election materials., adding that the NURTW has been a long partner of INEC on election dutiies. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that representatives of
security agencies, women and youths groups as well as NGOs also
demonstrated their different roles in an election.