By:Auwalu Yusuf-Birnin kudu Daura – The Northwest Zonal office of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has described the recent visit of the presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to the United State of America (USA) as ”an exercise in futility.” Alhaji Abdulmanaf Mohammed-Daura,the Zonal Organising Secretary of
the ruling party made this known in an interview with the News Agency of
Nigeria (NAN) in Daura on Sunday. He said the visit would not add any political value to the PDP
presidential candidate or stop President Muhammadu Buhari from winning
the presidential election with wide margin. According to him, about 85 per cent of the electorates are solidly in
support of the re-election Buhari because of his administration’s
considerable gains in critical sectors of the national economy. “Our voters are Nigerians not Americans and are ready to give another mandate to the President.” Mohammed-Daura further expressed optimism that the APC record
overwhelming victory across the 36 States in Nigeria, because “our party
has impacted positively nationwide.” He said the Buhari administration has inaugurated the Baro Inland
Water Port in Niger that would generate massive employment and revenue. He described the Federal Government efforts at transforming
infrastructure and agricultural as unprecedented, adding, “many federal
roads are being rehabilitated, rail lines reconstructed and security has
been maximally restored.” The zonal organising secretary who doubles as the Katsina State
Coordinator of the National Committee for Buhari Support Group, assured
that the state would provide two million votes for Buhari and Gov.
Masari in the general elections. He said the party has mapped out strategies towards achieving the
projected number of votes through aggressive mobilisation and
sensitisation of voters as well as highlighting projects executed and
plans for the future. According to him, Gov. Masari has changed the pattern of governance
in Katsina state through his open door policy, accountability and
transparency. He said the administration has made an indelible marks in the
critical sectors of the economy especially youth empowerment,
agriculture, security, health and road construction. The organising Secretary called on the electorate to be law abiding
before, during and after the forthcoming general elections, stressing. Mohammed-Daura said there are existing laws to punish perpetrators of electoral violence or malpractice.