By Edith Ike-Eboh Abuja – The Federal Government says it has commenced the monitoring and tracking of vessels involved in crude oil lifting to help curb crude theft in the country. Dr Ibe Kachikwu, Minister of State for Petroleum Resources disclosed
this at the ongoing Nigerian International Petroleum Summit (NIPS) on
Tuesday in Abuja. The theme of the summit is “Shaping  the future  through  efficiency and innovation”. He said that the Federal Government had acquired the capacity to monitor vessels operating in Nigeria. He added that government had observed irregularities in the movement
of some of the vessels mandated to lift crude oil from Nigeria. Kachikwu said the data observed from the activities from the movement
of vessels would help determine the various loading points of the
vessels, the dead weight of the vessels and the volume of crude oil
lifted from the country by the vessels. The Minister noted that the tracking programme would be extended to
the downstream sector, to determine the volume of Premium Motor Spirit
(PMS), also known as petrol, imported into the country. “It will also be used to know the quantity of the products brought in
by each vessel, the depots, the commodities  they are stored, up to the
points of retail to motorists. “For the first time, we know what we are producing in this country,
as to when it is being produced, barrel to barrel, we can tell. “We can see even vessels that are coming into Nigeria and their activities. ” We have seen some vessels go to a location and pick some cargoes,
leave that point, go to another point pick something else and return to
the first location, when they should be heading to Port Novo or the
U.S., ” he said He further said that ministry had partnered the Economic and
Financial Crimes Commission(EFCC) to track vessels lifting crude oil
from the country. “What we are trying to do with the EFCC is to gather data and track
these vessels, to determine the owners, why did they leave this point,
what happened along the way, what is the dead weight of the vessels at
the time they were leaving Nigeria and many more. “So for the first time, we are going to soon be able to tell on a
day-by-day basis all the activities that took place in the sector and
those of the players,” he said. (NAN)