By Kelechi Ogunleye  Abuja   –      Abdullahi Gana, the Commandant-General, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has charged personnel of the Corps to be more dedicated, hard working and committed to their duty in 2019. Mr Soji Alabi, Media Assistant to the Commandant General, said in a statement on Friday in Abuja, that Gana made the remarks at a meeting with the management and staff to flag off activities for the New Year. Gana urged the personnel to reciprocate the kind gesture of the management on improved welfare and be more dedicated and loyal to the Corps and the nation at large. He noted that his administration had promoted over 4,000 personnel in the senior and junior categories, and paid them promotion arrears, adding that those promoted since 2014 were paid as at Dec. 31, 2018. He said the Corps keyed into the Federal Government Housing Policy through the Federal Mortgage Bank. “Loans were provided for more than 962 officers and men to renovate their homes while 20 more officers and men have benefited from the Federal Integrated Staff Housing (FISH) programme,” Gana said, amongst other achievements. The CG commended the efforts of the various directorates and state commands for the achievements recorded in the core mandate of the corps. He noted that the Corps had ensured maximum security to all facilities and infrastructure in the Power Sector, Telecommunications, and others through the deployment of officers and men of the Corps. “The fight against pipeline vandalism, oil theft and adulteration of petroleum products has been sustained through the collaborative efforts of the NSCDC and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation. “Specially trained Anti vandal troops were deployed to man the major pipelines and oil installations across the nation. “This is especially in the Niger Delta region where the Corps has arrested over 250 suspects and 25 vehicles, 40 trucks, 25 boats, 6 vessels, 250 drums laden with stolen petroleum/adulterated products. “Those arrested have been prosecuted and convictions secured while some are still awaiting trials. “The intervention by the Corps has forced Pipeline vandalism to reduce significantly in Nigeria,” he said. The NSCDC boss added that the Corps had also done well in the area of protecting water dams, telecommunication facilities and equipment, curbing illegal mining and critical assets in the power sector. “The Corps has deployed over 5,000 personnel to the North-East to protect the IDP camps, and to re-occupy the re-claimed Towns and Villages by the Military. “It has also maintained a tremendous working relationship with the military in the fight against insurgency in the North East Nigeria. “The Corps has succeeded in intercepting books donated by UNICEF as well as food and drugs by international and local donors to the IDPs and ensured that the items got to the beneficiaries. “These efforts by the Corps in Borno Command has endeared it to the U.S. Government who donated operational and administrative equipment worth about N4,000,000.00 ( Four Million Naira) only to the state command,” he said. The NSCDC helmsman added that aside from carrying out its mandate, it also joined forces with the military to curb the huge security challenges across the nation.