By Emmanuel Oloniruha and Angela Atabo  Abuja – A Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), YIAGA Africa, says it will expose anyone that attempt to undermine or rig the processes of the forthcoming general elections through its Parallel Vote Tabulation (PVT) methodology. The YIAGA Executive Director, Mr Samson Itodo, made this assertion in
Abuja on Saturday at a one-day media roundtable on the 2019 general
elections and deployment of the Parallel Vote Tabulation (PVT)
methodology for the Presidential elections. YIAGA Africa is a civic non-governmental organisation or initiative
involved in promoting democracy, governance and development in Africa
through advocacy, research and capacity building.
“
“The message for Nigerians including the politicians, who will stop at
nothing to compromise the process, is that if there is fraud, if anyone
attempts to compromise these elections, YIAGA Africa Parallel Vote
Tabulation (PVT) will expose it.” He listed some of the values of the PVT to include its potential to
verify election results, deepen the integrity of the process, as well as
ensure the acceptability of the elections outcome. According to him, as it is now there is crisis of confidence in the electoral process from different stakeholders. “We are concern that at different levels, people will not accept the
results because they will think that the process has been compromised. “What YIAGA is doing now is to say there is a methodology that has
the capacity to verify any result declared by the Independent National
Electoral Commission (INEC), particularly the presidential election. “So there will be no need to take to violence or cause any form of
instability because there is a methodology that can provide evidence,”
he said. Itodo expressed optimism that the deployment of the PVT for the
election would help to boost citizen confidence in the electoral
process. He advised Nigeria journalists to embrace the global trend of data
driven elections reportage as they covered activities related to the
forthcoming general elections. Itodo, who described data as new oil, said that the growing trend in
election reporting was data driven reportage that gave more credibility
to electoral processes. He said that data reporting and investigative journalism on the
forthcoming elections were important as there are already a lot of
misinformation and fake news in the public. He said that the only way to counter fake news and misinformation is
by using data and evidence, saying gone are those days when people focus
more on non-data reporting of an election. The executive director noted that non-data reporting of elections to a
large extent does not provide a detailed assessment of how an election
has been conducted. “One of the things that we do at YIAGA is generating data and using
it to assess the credibility and acceptability of the process, as well
as using data to facilitate reforms. “Data is the new oil, even in election. So in your reporting, we
encourage you to focus on data and what data is saying and interpreting
the data on the assessment of the election,’’ the YIAGA chief said. Itodo also called for more collaborations between civil society
organisations and the media in ensuring that the forthcoming elections
reflected the wishes and will of Nigerians. He said that the recent events unfolding in the country was a call to
action for different stakeholders to actually rise up in defense of
democracy and ensuring that the electoral process was in compliance to
standards. “As we go towards these elections in the next two weeks, we have got a
big challenge before us. The challenge is to ensure that these
elections reflect the will and wishes of the Nigerian people. “To make that happen, civil societies and the media need to work
together because Feb. 16 and March 2 are perhaps the only unique
opportunity that Nigerians will have to exercise their sovereignty.’’ YIAGA Watching the Vote (WTV) Project Director, Cynthia Mbamalu,
stressed the need for all stakeholders to ensure that the forthcoming
elections were credible. “As citizens, we will all be victims if we have elections that are not credible,’’ she said. The YIAGA Africa WTV Training Manager, Mr Paul James, presenting the
overview of PVT, described the methodology as a powerful citizens’ tool
for assessing the conduct of polling on election day and verifying
official results as announced by INEC. He said that PVT to be deployed for 2019 presidential elections,
would rely on real time information from over 3,000 YIAGA WTV observers
that would be deployed to 1, 515 polling unit in every local government
in Nigeria. James said that the methodology which provide information on the
conduct of accreditation, voting, and counting as well as independently
verifies the official election results as announced by INEC had been
used in some African countries. YIAGA Africa has also successfully deployed the methodology in the
September 2018 Governorship election in Osun state; July 2018
Governorship election in Ekiti State; 2017 governorship election in
Anambra state; and the 2016 Governorship election in Ondo State.’’ Mr Richard Klein, the Senior Advisor, Elections, National Democratic
Institute for International Affairs (NDI), said that YIAGA did not care
about who won the forthcoming elections but the credibility of the
process.