By Rita Iliya Bida (Niger) – Gov. Abubakar Bello of Niger on Monday received 50 supporters of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) who defectors to the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bida Local Government Area of the state. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the defectors were
presented to the governor by Alhaji Jibrin Imam, the state’s Chairman of
APC during the launching of the campaign for the forthcoming general
elections at Aliyu Ndayako Memorial Stadium, Bida. The defectors were coordinators of Alliance for Nasko from the 25
local government areas of the state and other members of the PDP. Speaking at the occasion, Bello appealed to the electorate to vote for APC candidates at all levels in the general elections. He listed the achievements of his administration to include
re-activation of the Bida water works that had been abandoned for 20
years. “This water project started during the administration of Late
Abdulkadir Kure and was abandoned after he left government, but because
government is a continuum we took over the project. “Right now people in Bida town have started enjoying water after 20
years of not having water, we are now working to get alternative power
source with a standby generator, “ Then, we will commence reticulation from different parts of the town, “he said. Bello noted that the project once completed would supply water to the people for 24 hours to the entire Bida town. He mentioned other on-going projects such as accreditation of School
of Nursing Bida, renovation of schools and General Hospital as well as
construction of Bage Dukuza dual carriage and Darachita road. The Etsu Nupe, Alhaji Yahaya Abubakar, commended the intervention
projects of the present administration in the area and assured the
governor of the people’s total support in the Feb. 16 general elections. “I give you my blessings and I pray for your victory at the polls, ” he said. He appealed to the governor to provide befitting accommodation and
means of mobility for district heads in Bida Emirate Council and the
installation of street lights in the area. Abubakar also urged the governor to complete the Bida housing estates
project to alleviate shortage of accommodation in the town. (NAN)