By Fatima Mohammed-Lawal Ilorin – The Congress of the Coalition of Health Sector Unions (COHESU), Kwara branch, has suspended its indefinite strike due to the outbreak of Lassa fever, Yellow fever and Polio in some parts of the state. This was contained in a statement jointly signed by Mr Joseph
Adekanye, Chairman of the National Association of Nigeria Nurses and
Midwives (NANNM) and Mr Murtala Olayinka, Chairman of Medical and Health
Workers Union of Nigeria (MHWUN) in Ilorin on Thursday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the health workers had
embarked on an indefinite strike across the 16 local government areas of
the state on Jan. 21. The workers were agitating over the non implementation of the 10 Consolidated Salary Structure (CONHESS) for workers. The statement read: “The strike is suspended due to the current
outbreak of Lassa fever, Yellow Fever and Polio virus in some parts of
Kwara, to allow the participation of our members in efforts to curb the
spread of diseases. “That due to intervention of well-meaning stakeholders in the state,
we hereby suspend the strike and our members are expected to resume work
immediately with the hope that the state government will urgently
address the issues that led to the strike.” The statement further called the attention of the Kwara State Head of
Service, Mrs. Susan Oluwole, to the fact that both medical bodies were
recognised trade unions. It said the unions were established under Decree 4 of 1996, with
membership spread across all the tiers of governments, therefore, should
be represented at the Joint Account Allocation Committee (JAAC). “That full implementation of promotion should be paid rather than
being short paid as noticed in the last payment of promotion exercise. “We also request that the pay slip be given to our members on monthly
basis as health workers in the 16 local councils are not certain how
their salaries are being deducted. “That seniority list be followed in the appointments of officers into
various positions and those abnormally appointed should be corrected in
order to maintain sanity in the system,” it stated. The statement also called for resolution of the issue of manpower
shortage, both at the state and local government levels in the health
sector. It said there should be concerted efforts to implement the 10 per
cent CONHESS for all the 16 councils health workers in the next JAAC
meeting for the month of January, 2019. The statement also appealed to the Head of Service to use her good
office to mediate on the lingering issues after which COHESU will have
no option than to resume the suspended strike.