By Hassana Yakubu Kaduna – More than N9.2 billion has been spent on developmental projects in Sabon Gari Local Government Area by the Kaduna State Government in the last three years, the Commissioner for Local Government, Prof. Kabiru Mato, has said. Mato said on Tuesday at Sabon Gari, Zaria, during a town hall meeting showcasing the achievements of Gov. Nasiru El-Rufa’i in the area, that N2.4 billion of the amount was spent on schools. This he said, covered the construction and rehabilitation of classrooms, toilet facilities and provision of boreholes to seven of the schools. The commissioner added that N4.6 billion was also spent by the government on water and sanitation, including the construction of Zaria main transmission water centre. On health, Mato said 10 primary health centres were constructed in the area at the cost of N194.5 million while N1.8 billion was used to construct three new roads in the local government. The commissioner assured that the state government has plans for more projects for the area, if re-elected. Also, Alhaji Murtala Dabo, a Permanent Secretary, disclosed that the state government had constructed 20 kilometers of road in the local government as part of its people-centered programmes. Earlier, Chairman of the local government, Mohammed Usman, commended the state government for embarking on people oriented projects in the area and urged the people to continue to support the administration. Usman noted that because of the reforms undertaken by El-Rufa’i in local government administration, the council can now pay its workers salaries and embark on developmental projects. He disclosed that the local council has provided electricity to communities in the area including Sabon Birni and Unguwar Malami, in addition to supporting farmers. The chairman added that the council now settles the allowances of local vigilantes securing communities., a situation that has facilitated relative peace in the area. The Chairman, therefore, urged all residents to live peacefully and avoid any act the would lead to violence. Alhaji Datti Babawo, the member representing Sabon Gari Federal Constituency, said the gathering was very important as it aimed at educating the people on the programmes and policies of the state government. Babawo who was represented by Malam Adamu Ishaku, said that the programme would also enable the government to get feedback directly from the people on its performance. One of the participants, Malam Yahaya Abubakar, who is the leader of people with disabilities, pleaded with the government to provide jobs to them and their children, some of whom had graduated from higher institutions. “This is our cry, we want the state government to please provide us with jobs so as to end our suffering,” he said.(NAN)