By Stanley Nwanosike  Enugu,  –      The Director-General of Voice of Nigeria (VON), Chief Osita Okechukwu, has applauded President Muhammadu Buhari for making the yuletide stress-free for Nigerians nationwide. Okechukwu said this while speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in Enugu on the responsiveness of President Buhari on issues affecting Nigerians. “President Buhari has once again shown his commitment and resolve to create better life for Nigerians by ensuring that essential services are stable this particular yuletide. “Every Nigerian irrespective of creed, political affiliation and philosophy of life enjoyed the availability of electricity and abundant supply of fuel to all filling stations nationwide. “Fuel is abundant and sufficient to take the whole country to the end of February after the General Elections. “This can only be the hallmark of people-oriented and centred leadership, which President Buhari has vowed to give to Nigerians,’’ he said. The VON boss said as a result of the recent stability in electricity, the bill for diesel or fuel in most homes, offices and establishments had reduced considerably. Okechukwu noted that the same passion that the President had used in delivering these short time goals this yuletide, he would do same for all long term developmental infrastructures promised by his administration. “President Buhari is already keeping faith with his commitment on infrastructural development especially the ongoing second Niger Bridge that will be of great benefit to the people of the South-East and South-South regions. “Also, Mr President is going ahead to complete the ongoing 5,000 kilometers Federal roads and 5,000 standard gauge railways nationwide. “His resolve to have an incremental electricity supply by an additional 5,000 megawatts was felt, especially during the yuletide. “We also have evidence of self-sufficiency in food production his administration is driving Nigeria to,’’ he said. According to him, Nigerians should continue to follow the path of progress, which the All Progressive Congress (APC) is offering through the Buhari-led administration by re-electing him.