By Tukur Muntari Kano, – The Kano state government has revoked over N5 billion contract for the construction of four major roads in the state. The State Commissioner for Information, Malam Mohammed Garba,
disclosed this in a statement made available to the News Agency of
Nigeria (NAN) in Kano on Friday. He said the decision to revoke the contracts was taken during the
weekly Executive Council meeting held at the Government House on
Thursday. He said the affected roads were the phase two dualisation of Kofar
Dawanau-Dandinshe-Kwanar Madugu road awarded at the cost of N1. 2
billion; dualisation of 5km roads in Ungogo and Warawa Local Government
Areas awarded at the cost of N1. 4 billion and N1. 2 billion
respectively. Other road contracts revoked were the ones linking Kofar Sidi Ahmad
to Kofar Dan ‘iya Aminu and Kofar Wambai; Kwarin Akuya, Dan Rimi, Sabon
Birni Kurnar Asabe in Bichi and Fagge Local Government Areas awarded at
the total of N357. 6 million. Garba said the road projects in Bichi and Fagge were awarded on Aug.
2, 2017 and Nov. 13, 2017 , with completion period of four months and 14
months respectively. He said the contracts were revoked following the inability of the
contractor to complete the projects despite collecting advance payments
of N204. 2 million and N96. 2 million respectively. The Commissioner also said that the State Executive Council had
approved the payment of N198. 5 million as Postgraduate Research Grant
to Kano University of Science and Technology, Wudil, and tN60 million
for the university to conduct its 5th Convocation and investiture of the
vice chancellor. He said the Council had also approved N55 million for the procurement
of solar power facilities in 10 selected health centres in the state,
in addition to giving approval for the conduct of general renovation
works at National Diarrheal Training Unit located at Murtala Muhammad
Specialist Hospital. The commissioner disclosed that the council had approved the release
of N30. 3 million for the construction of drainages and related measures
to address problems of floods at Saya-Saya town in Albasu Local
Government Area, as well as the sum of N38.9 million for the
construction of Ado Bayero Road Network, Dorayi Babba in Gwale Local
Government Area