By Tosin Kolade  Abuja   –      Some Car Wash Operators on Tuesday raised an alarm over alleged harassment and extortion by men of the Abuja Environment Protection Agency (AEPB). The operators told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja that the call became necessary following continuous seizure of their property and harassment, causing untold hardship to them. NAN observed that a Joint Task Force Team of the AEPB clamped down on some car wash operators at the Gudu Area in the Federal Capital Territory. The team, which comprises mobile police and naval ratings drove in two Hilux vans and in buses, forcing the operators and customers to flee. The task force carted away their pumping machines, empty buckets, water pipes, among others as the owners ran around to see what could be done to salvage their stuffs. Mr Nonso Onwudike, an operator who had his pumping machine seized, alleged that it was not the first time the task force came to harass them. He expressed regret that the exercise had resulted in huge losses for him and others in the business. According to him, he is determined to meet his needs by being self-employed as he was unable to secure a job after graduating in 2010. “I want to beg the FCT Administration and the AEPB to help us to survive; this is not the first time these taskforce people are coming here. “They come weekly, seizing our items and we have to pay 10,000 or 15,000, depending on their demand before releasing our property to us. “We are really not making much, but whenever they come, they ask us to pay before the seized items are given back. “You can imagine if we have not made any sales for that day, you have to struggle to get cash to collect your seized items.’’ On the claim that they were operating illegally, Onwudike said that was not true because they had been issued permits by the AEPB to operate. He said that some operators had paid for part of the green area they were meant to be using, but expressed worry that nothing had been done to allocate it to them. Another operator, Mr Dayo Abiodun said that it was saddening that the team had developed a routine of allegedly extorting from them, saying the practice should be condemned. He said that no fewer than seven boys were working for him, adding that the business had been able to create employment for them, taking them off crime to make them useful citizens in the society. “It is high time the AEPB stopped victimising Nigerians seeking means of livelihood; this is not acceptable in other places. “Do they want us to steal, how do we survive, feed our families if we don’t venture into this small business, “They come here to harass us, we beg them, give them money, they release it back, how do we continue to live like this?’’ A taxi driver, Mr Isaac Adekunle, told NAN that he came to wash his car when the taskforce team suddenly made away with his car carpets, without prior notice. “I just went to eat after I handed over my car for washing. Before I finished eating, I saw people running and I stood up, rushed to where my car was and discovered that they have taken away the carpets. “What do they want me to do; is it to pay too? Am I the owner of the car wash site that they are seizing my things? ” he said. Adekunle called for proper legislation on exact roles and functions of the AEPB, and for awareness to be created on how the car wash business should be operational in the FCT. Mallam Mukthar Ibrahim, the AEPB Head, Information and Outreach Unit, told NAN that car wash operators had been told to stop the indiscriminate manner they operated. According to him, the clamp down is necessary as a large number of them fail to get the necessary permits to operate in such places. He debunked reports that its officials extorted money from person whose working tools were seized.