By Lilian Okoro/Rukayat Moisemhe Lagos – Mr Chris Dodwell, Director, Climate Change and Clean Growth Ricardo Energy, has called on stakeholders in the financial sector to collaborate towards financing developmental projects. Dodwell made the call on Friday at the closing session of the UK-Nigeria Climate Finance Accelerator workshop (CFA) in Lagos. He said that CFA was an innovative international initiative supported
by the UK Government and other international donors including Nigeria,
Colombia and Mexico. According to him, its aim is to accelerate the transformation of
countries’ Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) into bankable
projects to attract investment from the private sector. He added that CFA was a powerful example of creating a productive
dialogue between financiers and policymakers, focused on scalable
opportunities. “The CFA progresses financing proposals for identified projects while
ensuring Technical Assistance is provided to policymakers across
ministries so that planing for delivery of the NDC is better aligned
with available capital from local and international markets. “For its actualisation and success, there is need for dialogue and
collaboration among policymakers, governments, project developers and
financial experts,” Dodwell said. Contributing, Mr Kyari Bukar, former Chairman, Nigeria Economy Summit
Group (NESG), said the CFA programme was the kind of investment
initiative the country currently needed to boost its investment
portfolios for enhanced economic growth. Bukar said the initiative would help to diversify investment
portfolio of the banking sector and also transform the capital market. “There is a driven finance community that is growing in the Nigerian economy, which needs to be identified and developed. “With the much-valued support of the Nigeria Economic Summit Group,
since October 2018, we have been engaging with private sector companies
interested in undertaking ambitious low carbon development projects. “This is with a view to creating a mature pipeline of bankable
projects contributing to Nigeria’s NDC and strengthening the climate
finance capacities of public and private sector institutions,” he said. In her closing remarks, Mrs Zinab Ahmed, Minister of Finance, assured
of the readiness of the Federal Government to partner any group or
stakeholders towards the transformation and economic development of the
country. Ahmed, represented by Mr Israel Igwe, Director, Economic Research and
Policy, Ministry of Finance, said there was need for a coordinated
green climate finance platform like the CFA in the economy. According to her, the CFA programme is an innovative concept that
would aid government’s developing approach of the “Ease of Doing
Business” programme. Four banks namely; Access, Union, Sterling and First City Monument
Bank (FCMB) made presentations of the bank’s proposed projects. (NAN) 