By Isaac Ukpoju Lafia – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)  and National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) have signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for the provision of vehicles for the transportation of election materials in Nasarawa state. Dr Uthman Ajidagba, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in the
state made the disclosure at a stakeholders’ meeting on Tuesday in
Lafia. He said some of the vehicles, 265 in all, would also be used to
transport election officials during the forthcoming polls in Nasarawa
state. According to REC, the meeting is part of preparations toward
achieving successful conduct of the 2019 general elections in the state. “The Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) is also part of the
agreement, as a critical stakeholder, to ensure smooth transportation of
electoral materials and officials during the polls. “All the vehicles will be required at the various INEC local
government offices by 6 a.m on the eve of both rounds of the general
elections. “This is to ensure that electoral materials and officials get to
their destinations on time for the smooth conduct of the polls,’’
Ajidagba said. According to him, arrangement has also been concluded for boats,
canoes and motorcycles in areas to be available, where necessary, to
ensure hitch-free exercise. Mr Salihu Adamu, the Nasarawa State Chairman of NURTW, assured INEC
that the union would make available required number of vehicles for the
exercise. “We will  ensure that all the vehicles to be deployed are in good
condition and made available as early as required by INEC for the
general elections,’’ Adamu assured. Mrs Faustina Alegbe, Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Commission
(FRSC) in the state, said that personnel of the command would be
available for the success of the exercise. She promised all the vehicles and drivers would be properly checked and certified fit for use for the exercise. Alegbe stressed that any vehicle or driver found short of the conditions, set by the command, would be replaced. She also said that all the certified vehicles would be given special stickers for easy identification during the elections. “Any vehicle conveying electoral materials and persons during the
election, without the certification sticker, will be arrested,’’Alegbe
said.