By Ibrahim Bello Birnin Kebbi, – The Kebbi State Government says it has paid gratuities to retired civil servants and death benefits to families of the decease from the creation of the state on Aug. 21,1991 to Feb. 28, 2017. The State Head of Service, Alhaji
Abubakar Idris, made this known at a ministerial briefing and
interactive session with Gov. Atiku Bagudu in Birnin Kebbi on Monday. “I wish to acknowledge with deep
appreciation that all those who have retired from service from the
creation of Kebbi State from Aug. 21,1991 up to Feb. 28, 2017, have been
paid their gratuities and or death benefits to the families of the
deceased,” he said. “The State is one of the few ones in
the federation that are up to date in the payment of salaries and
pension under the leadership of governor Bagudu,’’ he said. Idris said that N638, 164 million
had been expended by the Head of Service Departments on general
administration from 2015 to date. “The departments comprised general administration and establishment, pension and training department,” he said. He said that Bagudu had graciously
approved the payments of furniture allowance to all serving permanent
secretaries, while releasing N100 million for car refurbishing loans to
all categories of civil servants in the state. Idris said that N54, 209 million was
used to finance series of retreats, seminars and workshops both within
and outside the State. “The sum of N28, 416 million was
spent on local in-service training programmes for 107 officers on high
scheme and another N41, 833 million has been utilised on overseas
in-service training programmes of 20 officers,” he said. He said that N62, 860 million was
spent on organised groups to enable them conduct seminars, workshops and
conferences, among others. “N27, 275 million was spent in the
rehabilitation of state ministry of commerce and N12, 767 million on the
reinforcement of the foundation of the new wing of the state
secretariat,” he said. Bagudu commended the staff of the
head of service department for their efforts in making sure that the
state moved to the next level. The News Agency of Nigeria
(NAN) reports that the briefing was organised by the Office of the Head
of Service in collaboration with the Office of the Secretary to the
Kebbi Government.