By George Odok Yala – Gov. Ben Ayade of Cross River has said that his performance in the last three years stands out as a stregth in his bid for reelection in March. He also said that the principle of rotation of governorship among the
senatorial zones of the state makes it expedient for the residents to
maintain the tradition. At a rally in Yala local governmwnt area on Wednesday, Ayade
expressed fulfilment on the way the welfare of residents had been
captured during his three years in office. He said that there was massive political appointments for youths,
recruitment of teachers and nurses amongt others in the state in under
to improve on the living standards of the people. “I know I have done a lot by appointing 6,000 appointees, engaged
2,500 teachers and 1,000 nurses among others, but surely I will know no
sleep until everyone of you here gets a job. “This is the turn of northern Cross River, both south and central
have had their different eight years as governors, the north must be
allowed to complete their eight years too,’’ he said. The governor disclosed that the Okpoma water project in Yala has been
completed among other projects aimed at alleviating the pains of the
people. The Paramount Ruler of Yala Local Government Area, Chief Godwin
Denis-Odu, said the people of Yala have decided that Ayade must go back
to government house to complete his performance. “We are the oracle, we have spoken that our son must return, so shall it be,’’ he said. Also, a stalwart of the All Progressives Party (APC) and a former
governorship aspirant, Dr Julius Okpotu, said Ayade deserves a second
term on account of his sterling performance in office. “Ayade’s support base cuts across party lines, even members of the APC will work to get him re-elected. “I am here because of the good works of Governor Ayade. He has worked
tirelessly to change the story of Cross River. His re-election
therefore, will be a smooth sail,’’ he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Okpotu had decamped to the People’s Democratic Party during the rally. At the Ogoja local government township stadium, thousands of party
faithful, support groups, youths, traders as well as various social
groups came out in their numbers to receive Ayade. The governor assured the people that his second term in office would
be better and urged the people to come out en mass and vote for him on
March 2. Chanting solidarity songs, the enthusiastic crowd, in appreciation of
Ayade’s developmental strides, vowed to protect their votes for the
governor’s return.