By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Peoples’ Democratic Party (PD) Campaign Train Lands in South East, Assures of Restructuring. The solidarity of the South East geo- political zone for the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party,PDP, was visibly demonstrated on Tuesday as the Presidential campaign train arrived Owerri, Imo state capital for the region’s zonal rally. Who is who in the South East political leadership, former governors, former Ministers,former Senate President all combing with the three state governors of the party, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, Enugu, Okezie Ikpeazu, Abia and Dave Umahi of Ebonyi and the former Senate President Anyim Pius Anyim and the Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu to declare unflinching support of the region to the PDP. PDP zonal chairman Austin Umahi opened the talk with an assurance to the Presidential candidate and his Vice Peter Obi that the region has decided to invest in them because it’s a worthy investment that they are sure will yield dividend. The Vice Presidential candidate Obi told the jubilant crowd that thronged Dan Ányiam stadium, Owerri that Atiku and PDP are the correct place to vote because they are ready to create job and restructure Nigeria. Obi said that with Atiku Nigeria environment will be good again for Ndigbo to carry on their businesses. The Senate President Bukola Saraki who is also the Director General of the PDP Presidential campaign told the people to dump APC as he did because they have nothing good for Nigeria. Saraki said that they cannot give job nor keep existing ones and the country is going down under their watch. The Wife of the Presidential candidate, Bar Jamila Atiku Abubakar who hails from the region urged her people to come out embassy on February 16, to cast their votes for her husband because he has what it takes to put the country right. The PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus whose media office released this statement continued his warning to the Independent National Electoral Commssion, INEC, that a rigged election is an invitation to crisis and they will held responsible. Secondus said that Nigeria is ripe for an energetic, texted and tried President like Atiku Abubakar unlike the APC candidate who cannot engage or even articulate issues as was witnessed by the whole World in a recent televised interview. The Presidential candidate Atiku in his remarks charged the people to come out massively on the voting day not only to vote for PDP but that they should defend their votes and stop APC from stealing them. “Don’t allow them steal your votes, they are no campaigning, they are not engaging the people, they want to steal your votes, you must not allow them. The National Chairman Prince Secondus at the colorful ceremony handed victory flags to the four gubernatorial candidates of Ebonyi, Enugu, Abia and Imo states. Signed. Ike Abonyi S