By Martha Agas Jos – Dr Garba Abari, the Director-General, National Orientation Agency (NOA), on Saturday tasked media organisations on investigative journalism as they play critical role in setting public agenda. The NOA director-general made the call at the investiture of the Emir
of Wase, Muhammadu Haruna, as the Patron of Nigeria Union of
Journalists (NUJ), Plateau State Council, in Jos. The occasion was also the NUJ’s launch of N200 Million for the construction of the NUJ House. He said the media as watch dogs of the society must adopt professional ethics in discharging their duties. “Media through its investigations must ensure that responsibilities
of key institutions are performed and should not allow fake news and
hate speeches that would heat the polity,’’ he said. He said the media through their duties should make sure the
instruments of democracy were truly democratic and investigate the
sources and veracity of the information they get. In his paper titled ‘the role of traditional institutions in
citizenship engagement and national development’, Abari said the media
and traditional institutions must work together for the progress of the
country. “The influx of globalisation has facilitated the access of uncensored
information affecting cultural bridging, thus the media and traditional
institutions must shore up efforts to address the abnormally,” he said. Abari also urged civil societies to support media activities to
address societal ills saying they must build their capacities and be
competent in discharging their duties. Gov. Simon Lalong of Plateau, while making a donation of N30 million
for the renovation of the NUJ Press Centre in the state, tasked the
union to sanitise the profession. The Governor represented by Mr Dan Manjang, the state Commissioner of
Science and Technology, said that it was worrisome that journalism was
becoming an all-comers affair especially with the advent of Social
Media. He said the Plateau Government was committed to changing the face of
NUJ secretariat and in addition, would donate furniture for the Plateau
Council. In his speech, the Emir of Wase, Dr Muhammadu Haruna, said he would
work with the Union for its improvement and the growth of the society. He said the construction of the NUJ House would not only address the
union’s accommodation challenges but would also be a source of revenue
for the council. (NAN)