2 By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja
(Sundiata Post) – Federal Government has said it is in support of the riots
acts by the United States and United Kingdom against those who would instigate
electoral violence in the February general election in Nigeria. Recalls
that the two countries had in a joint statement on Thursday said that those who would take part in election violence
and rigging in the upcoming Nigerian elections will be denied visas. The UK
government said its observers would monitor polling stations and social media
during the February 16 vote and those found inciting violence may also face
prosecution and denied access to U.K based funds and visa denial. In
a statement signed  by Segun
Adeyemi, special aide to the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed,
the Federal Government said it is particularly delighted that the
statements came after it alerted the nation to the machinations of some opposition
elements who are working to scuttle the 2019 polls through “widespread
violence”. The
FG called on the international community to keep a close eye on those who are
spending more time on a dubious strategy of scuttling the polls than
campaigning to win in a free, fair, transparent and peaceful election. Read the full text of the FG’s
statement below: “The Federal Government has
welcomed the statements from the United States and the United Kingdom demanding
a credible and peaceful election in Nigeria and threatening punitive measures
against election riggers and perpetrators of electoral violence. In a statement issued in Ilorin
on Friday, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, said
the Federal Government is particularly delighted that the statements came after
it alerted the nation to the machinations of some opposition elements who are
working to scuttle the 2019 polls through widespread violence. ”A few days ago, we alerted the
nation to the plot by the opposition to orchestrate widespread violence in the
country, using insurgents and criminal elements within and outside the country.
Their plan is to scuttle the election and then push for an interim government,
having realized they can’t win a free, fair, credible and peaceful election. ”The fact that those statements
came after we issued our red alert, which is based on credible intelligence,
shows that the international the community is closely monitoring events ahead
of the election. We urge them to keep a close tab on the desperate opposition,
whose language, actions and undisguised threats are antithetical to the conduct
of peaceful polls,” he said. Alhaji Mohammed said Nigerians
and the international community should take seriously the assurance of a
credible and violence-free election that has been consistently given by
President Muhammadu Buhari, a tried-and-tested democrat and a
globally-acclaimed man of integrity. He said the APC-led
Administration is very confident of victory in the forthcoming elections,
adding that a party that was not so desperate as to rig election while in
opposition had no business rigging election or perpetrating violence now that
it is in power and is enjoying massive support from the citizenry. The Minister called on the
international community to keep a close eye on those who are spending more time
on a dubious strategy of scuttling the polls than campaigning to win in a free,
fair, transparent and peaceful election. ”As their campaign flounders and
their strategies collapse, they have resorted to seeking power by subterfuge.
That’s why they are doing everything possible to discredit an election that has
yet to be held by unleashing their attack dogs on INEC, the police and the
entire electoral process. ”On our part, we have confidence
in the electoral process and the institutions saddled with organizing and
securing the election. That’s why we have been busy campaigning vigorously
across the country, attracting unprecedented, organic crowds everywhere we go. ”The party that has a history of
rigging polls is well known to Nigerians. The party that has a history of using
security forces to unleash violence in order to steal the people’s votes is
well known to Nigerians. The party that organized an election that was later
described as flawed by its own ‘winning’ presidential candidate is well known
to Nigerians. That party is not the All Progressives Congress (APC),” he said.
Segun Adeyemi
SA To Hon Minister of Information and Culture