By Lucy Osuizigbo  Lagos –  All Progressives Congress chieftain, Seen. Bola Tinubu, says the party might not have recorded quick success without its former Interim Chairman, Chief Bisi Akande. In a tribute to congratulate Akande as he clocks 80, Tinubu, also the Co-Chair of the party’s Presidential Campaign Council, said Akande was a founding father of the APC and its unprecedented electoral victory in 2015. A copy of the tribute was made available to newsmen on Tuesday in Lagos by Tinubu’s Media Officer, Mr Tunde Rahman. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Chief Bisi Akande, a nationalist and a former governor of Osun State, will clock 80 on Jan. 16. Tinubu, in a statement issued by his Media Officer, Tunde Rahman, said that Akande was one of the few surviving true associates of the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo and Chief Bola Ige. According to him, like Awolowo and Ige, Akande devoted his public life to the ideals and practices that can engender a truly democratic and egalitarian society. ”He is a founding father of the APC and its unprecedented electoral victory in 2015. ”As the interim chairman of the party, he showed extraordinary adeptness and patience in bridging differences and moulding our new party into a progressive force. ”Without him, the APC might never have come into existence and it certainly would not have experienced the quick success it encountered. ”He helped lay a solid foundation for the party and did so selflessly and with impartiality and a good word towards all. ”Baba is a highly perspective and thoughtful leader. He has proved invaluable in serving humanity and his fatherland,” he said. Tinubu described Akande as a principled leader, who possessed profound judgment and a sage’s wisdom as well as a compassionate human being and an example of decorum in any circumstance. ”This high principled leader, Bisi Akande, stood as a father figure and mentor to many younger politicians across the country, particularly in the South-West. ”Because of his traits as an exemplary leader and mentor, many call him “Baba Omo Keekeke”, meaning the political father of the younger ones who come after him. ”He has shown that one can be successful in politics by being kind to all and making concern for the common person and for a just society one’s guiding vision. ”He is one of the most humane persons you could meet. To meet him is to like him. To know him is to admire Chief Akande and to be thankful that he is your friend and ally,” he said. Tinubu said that Akande gave his best and served his Ila-Orangun hometown, his state, the Yoruba race and the country with commitment and dedication. ”He was a stalwart progressive regarding his objections, and proved to have an expert and diligent hand in terms of his administration of the machinery of governance. ”He was unwavering in pursuing what he believed was good and desirable for the state. ”He governed with a dignity that is rarely found. Yet, he would not flinch from doing what was right even if strong force was arrayed against him,” he said. (NAN)