NPower: December Stipend To Be Paid, As Minister Charged States Focal Persons On Efficiency opera.comDec 26, 2019 2:33 AM The Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development has urge all Npower beneficiaries to remain calm, as their December stipend will be paid, after resolving payment issues that they always experienced. It was to be noted that, the office of NSIP- Nigeria Social Investment Program that have NPower as a unit of the program has sent the bank details of All Npower beneficiaries that has been enrolled in to the program to NIBSS (Nigeria Inter-Banks Settlement System) that is in charge of inter-banks transfer process. NIBSS is a big payment platform for all banks in Nigeria. They always experience technical issue alot due to high volume of inter-banks transfer Nigerian carry out per day. The beneficiaries then have been assured to be expecting their December stipend on 27th or 28th of December, 2019. In another development, The Honourable Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq, has urged States Focal Persons to be more proactive in the delivery of National Social Investment Programme (NSIP), especially to the most vulnerable people in the country. Stating this on Monday in Abuja, during an interactive session with the States Focal Persons, the Minister said “the purpose of the meeting was to map out ways to improve the NSIP delivery worldwide, share regional best practices and lessons learnt within the states.” “Others are to strategize on means of strengthening and sustaining the programme, devise strategies to strengthen the NSIP value chain and improve the public and private sector support” she added. “There is no doubt in my mind therefore that the creation of the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development will provide the much needed coordination and necessary supervision with a view to adequately institutionalise the entire process for enhanced sustainability,” she further note. Farouq said “the programme has potentials to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty by 2023, increase school enrolment in some parts of the country and create more jobs for the youths in different sectors of the economy.” According to her, over four million Nigerians have directly benefitted from job training, financial assistance and social development through these programmes so far. (Aderoju.com)