By Grace Alegba Lagos – Touch of Love and Lifting Hands Foundation, an NGO,  during its fourth Social Intervention Programme on Friday in Lagos organised a Christmas and charity party for the elderly,  the needy and the  physically challenged in Lagos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) who covered the event reports  that two centenarians  were  specially  celebrated with dancing, cutting of the  cake  and the rendition of thanksgiving songs. Also, widows, widowers, the physically challenged,  the less privileged and other elderly citizens were treated to music, drama presentation and served refreshments in the spirit of the Yuletide. NAN also  reports that  guests went home with packs of rice, garri, salt, processed tomatoes and other staple food stuffs alongside cooked food and drinks provided by the NGO. Mrs Atinuke Owolabi, the Chief Executive Officer ( CEO)  of the foundation, in  her speech said it was the organisation’s fourth Social Intervention Programme. She said that the  event was tagged “Widows and Aged People Inclusiveness In Economic and Social Activities; A Panacea to an Improved Standard of Living Condition For The Abandoned Vulnerable People”. Owolabi said that the foundation had carried out three major Social Intervention Programmes since its  inception in 2017. She listed them to include the distribution  of food, drugs, free medical treatments and the organisation if  vocational opportunities for the elderly and vulnerable people in the society. She said that  she began the foundation because she understood the consequences of boredom and loneliness on mental health of widows and senior citizens who had lost their partners. She said that the Foundation  had also been taking care of the abandoned aged people, widows, widowers, the physically challenged and vulnerable girls in the society. She said that it was doing that  by providing them free medical check-ups, drugs recreational facilities and food. She added that they were usually given welfare packages during festivities and given  skills and vocational opportunities through which they  get empowered. She expressed appreciation to the Special Adviser, Lagos State Office Of Civic Engagement, Princess Aderemi Adebowale , for  her special interest in the plights of  vulnerable widows and aged people in our society. “Ma, your gestures of getting some of the very old people to meet with the governor during the Civic Week Launch Of “Sanwo-Olu Cares” some days ago will remain a day of joy throughout their lives and as long as the cord of their memories  can lengthen.” She also commended  her  for ensuring that some members of the foundation benefited from the “Sanwo-Olu Cares Social Intervention Program StartUp Kit” to start their own businesses. She sought the  continued support of the state government in improving   the welfare of the  elderly, the physically challenged and the less privileged in the state. “Finally ma, we are seeking a robust relationship between our foundation and your office   in the Year 2020. ” Such will  bother on policy formulation and implementation, human capital development and expanded base of the social intervention programmes of the Sanwo-Olu Cares in every part of Lagos State, especially,  the Lagos Ghettos,” she said. L-R: A centenarian, Pastor Oluwole Onipade, of the Cherubim and Seraphim Church, Mrs Atinuke Owolabi, CEO/founder, Touch of Love, Lifting Hands Foundation and another centenarian, Pa David Ogunleke during the foundation’s  Christmas/ birthday party on Friday in Lagos One of the centenarians that was celebrated, Pastor Oluwole Onipade, from the Cherubim and Seraphim Church, Oke Ayo in Okearo, a boundary community between Lagos  state and Ogun, commended the initiative. Also, a nonagenarian, Mrs Felicia Sodeinde,   a resident of Oke Aro told NAN:  “I just joined them this year and they are trying, the crowd is much that is why government must support”. NAN also  reports that  the Ifako Ijaye Youth Initiative; a progressive youth group, gave Owolabi an award in appreciation of her total commitment to widows, the physically challenged and community service and development in the council. (NAN)