By Dorcas Elusogbon Ile-Ife (Osun) – The Vice-Chancellor (V-C) of the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, Prof. Eyitope Ogunbodede, has described the demise of late Dr Oluremi Adeniyi as very painful. Adeniyi, until his death, was the Acting Head of the Department of Dramatic Arts in the University’s Faculty of Arts. Ogunbodede spoke during the Commendation Service organised by the department on Friday. He said that the sudden passing away of the rare gem would be a great loss not only to the family, but also to the entire University Community. According to him, late Adeniyi’s death was a colossal loss and the vacuum created by her transition would be difficult to fill, as her commitment and dedication to duty were incomparable. Also, the Dean of the Faculty, Prof. Abayomi Daramola, said that the HOD was a gentle, respectful, hardworking, humble, generous, honest, and dedicated person until she passed on. In his sermon, the Regional Pastor of Gospel Faith Mission, Pastor Clement Abey, described death as the inevitable for every human being. He said that all living souls would taste death. Abey narrated the story of the rich man and Lazarus in the Bible, saying that the rich man failed to prepare for his last home, but Lazarus did not miss the link. He added that the late lecturer served God and humanity while alive, prepared for her eternity and accepted Jesus Christ as her personal Lord and Saviour. According to him, “Christ is in us, the hope of glory”, the late Adeniyi saw, fought the good fight of faith and had won the race. The cleric said that the deceased had hope of eternity having accepted Jesus Christ as her personal Lord and Saviour when alive. Abey admonished everybody there to emulate the late Adeniyi’s exemplary and fulfilled life though she had gone so soon to meet her creator. ” Twenty four hours to her sudden demise, she was actively involved and directed the University’s 44th Convocation play titled “Ovonramwen Nogbaisi” a historical play written by Ola Rotimi,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the deceased participated in the grand-finale of the Convocation on Saturday, Dec.14 and passed away by mid-morning on Sunday, Dec. 15. (NAN)