By Olanrewaju Akojede Lagos – The Vice Chancellor of Crawford University, Igbesa, Ogun, Prof Rotimi Ajayi, on Tuesday attributed its 14 years of unbroken academic calendar to open leadership policy adopted by the institution. Ajayi told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) ahead of the university’s 11th convocation on Wednesday that the institution had yet to experience a single day close down for any reason since it was established 14 years ago. Ajayi, a Professor of Health Physics, said that the university management had ensured open door policy to all stakeholders throughout its 14 years history. “I can say without mincing words that we are the most peaceful university campus in Nigeria and that is our strong point which has been achieved through our open door policy. “Crawford University has been able to achieve this status because the management has been able to run an efficient service backed by the vision of the founders of the university which is creating a right and conducive atmosphere for learning. “The management of Crawford University understand what it means to run an open door policy because we want to be a model of knowledge with godly character that is needed in the country; our country is in dire need of righteous leaders. “From the first day the university was opened up till now, we have yet to have a day that the university will be shut either for industrial action or student unrest or any scandal,” he said. Ajayi said that universities should rather ensure that their graduates were moulded in knowledge and character, adding that one without the other might create an imbalance. “The nation needs the best of graduates, those that have been roundly trained in knowledge and character, we cannot afford to have half-baked students and throw them into the labour market. “University administrators and lecturers must strive to be the right model to the students; not only teaching them but giving them the pathway to purposeful leadership and efficient leadership skills. “The students in our university are taught in the word of God which makes them combine good characters with optimum learning because academic activities are not toyed with here, he said. “We are proud to produce graduates that are needed for the Nigerian market, those that are trustworthy and savvy in their various fields this is a legacy we want to continue with,” he said. The NAN reports that a total of 243 would bag first degree, while 23 others would bag postgraduate diplomas and masters degrees in various disciplines on Wednesday at the faith-based university. A breakdown of the graduates showed that 32 (13 per cent) made First Class; 91 (37 per cent) made Second Class Upper Division; 80 (33 per cent) made Second Class Lower Division and 40, (17 per cent) with Third Class degrees