By Bushrah Yusuf-Badmus Ilorin – The wife of the Kwara governor, Mrs Olufolake Abdulrazaq, on Thursday, urged all stakeholders to help stem the tide of drug abuse and illicit drug trafficking. Abdulrazaq made this call during her visit to Olorunda Trado-psychiatrist Home in Asa Local Government Area of the state, Ilorin. She said the call became imperative, as the United Nations office on Drugs Control, named Kwara as a pilot state to drive the campaign against drugs abuse in the North Central states and Abuja. ”Visiting this psychiatric institution at this time of the season brings to the fore government’s concern about the welfare of all citizens irrespective of their status. ”There are concerted efforts being made by the present administration, and my office to ensure that there is increased advocacy and awareness to stem the use of hard drugs and other depressive tendencies. ”These habits are strongly associated with mental illness, and awareness about it will go a long way in reducing mental illness in our society. ”You will recall that my office, Ajike People’s Support Centre and NDLEA during the International Day Against Drug Abuse, held a sensitisation programme to educate our youths on the dangers inherent in hard drugs. ”Similarly, we have held advocacies to address the issues surrounding illicit drug use and trafficking. ”It is in view of this that I urge all stakeholders to lend their voices toward stemming the tide of drug abuse and illicit drug trafficking, which brought some of these inmates here,” she said. The governor’s wife said the causes of most mental disorders were unknown, and charged parents and guardians to be vigilant and conscious of what their children and wards were doinginvolve themselves in. ”Mental illness has destroyed families, aborted lofty dreams and caused the government a huge cost in the area of rehabilitation and keeping the mentally retarded off our major streets. “Mental health may also be caused by a reaction to environmental stress, genetic factors, biochemical imbalances, or a combination of these. ”Although the causes of most mental disorder are not fully understood, some biological, psychological, and environmental factors have been identified to contribute to the development and progression of mental disorder,” Abdulrazaq said. She lauded the manager of Olorunda trado- psychiatric home for providing an atmosphere to complete the healing process for the mentally challenged. The governor’s wife promised to renovate the Home to a befitting structure by providing toilet facilities, perimeter fencing, borehole among other things. Earlier, the Founder of the Home, Folorunsho Olori, urged the state government to make the place more conducive for the patients. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Women Affairs, Mr Abdulganiyu Opeloyeru, lauded the state government for finding it worthy to visit the home. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the patients were presented with food items and toiletries such as rice, beans, semovita, yam, bathing and washing soaps, as well as tissue papers. (NAN)