By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former Aviation Minister (Dr) Mrs Kema Chikwe, former Amambra State Governor, Peter Obi, First Lady of Ondo state, Arabinrin Betty Anyanwu Akeredolu, Mr Ernest Ebi, MFR, Former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, will on Saturday, the 21st of December be guests at the Maiden Global Reunion of Egbu Girls Old Girls Association (EGOGA) in Owerri. The Reunion, which will hold between the 19th and 22nd of December, will feature the inaugural Ms. Winifred Hubbard Lecture, Ms. Hubbard is the first principal of the school. There will also be Gala/Awards Night, a Medical Mission and Thanksgiving Service. While Ambassador Kema Chikwe will chair the inaugural lecture, Mr Peter Obi will be the Special Guest of honour, and Arabinrin Betty Akeredolu will deliver the keynote address on ‘Building The Next Generation of Female leaders; The Girl Child Education’. The session will be moderated by renowned Publisher of The Source Magazine, Dame Comfort Obi. Both The First lady of Ondo state and Dame Obi are Old Girls of the school. The Gala/Awards Night will be chaired by Mr. Ernest Ebi, while the Governor of Ondo State, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN) will be Special Guest of Honour. Sir Onyewuchi Asinobi is the Father of the day with the Rt. Rev Geoffrey Okoroafor, the Anglican Bishop of Egbu Diocese as the Chief Host. Other guests expected at the Reunion activities include the IMO State Governor, The Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha as Chief Guest of Honour, the MD of Emzor, Dr Stella Okoli MON, OON, the IMO State Commissioner for Education, Hon. Prof. Viola Onwuliri, Chief Leo Stan Eke, Capt. Emmanuel Iheanacho, Hon. Chief Mrs. Nkeiru Ibekwe, Rt.Rev.Prof. Emmanuel Iheagwam, former bishop of Egbu, the Secretary to the Imo State Government Hon. Uche Onyeagucha and Hon. Reginald Ihebuzor Imo State Commissioner for budget and planning. Aside from helping Old school mates reconnect, the reunion is majorly aimed at raising funds to rebuild the dilapidated school infrastructure. The Association plans to use this reunion and several others to give back to their Alma Mater which is why the reunion has been tagged ‘A time to give back’. As part of giving back to the school, four projects would be commissioned during the reunion: a new fence covering the dormitory area, a gate, two sets of six toilet and bath facilities and a kitchen. Egbu Girls Secondary School was founded in 1962 as a mission school; it was taken over by government and returned to the mission in 2010.