By Sunday John Akun (Nasarawa State) – Chief Awayi Kuje, a Senior Correspondent with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), has urged politicians and wealthy individuals in the country to continue to empowering youth, for them to be self-reliant and contribute to national development. Kuje gave the advice on Sunday in Wakama during the grand finale of the football competition he organised for the eight clans of Wakama ward, Nassarawa Eggon Local Government Area of Nasarawa State. He said that the empowerment  would go a long way in improving the standard of living of the youth population. Kuje, who is the Angbla Eso Moa Wakama (The Voice of Wakama People), said that he organised the competition to promote unity and strengthen peace among the people of the area. “I want to appeal to all politicians and other wealthy individuals to empower our youths with different skills, soft loans among other gestures, in order to improve their standard of living. “As a youth, I will continue to contribute my quota to the development of other youths to enable them become better future leaders,” he said. He said that the importance of education to societal development could not be overemphasised and called on  youths to embrace education and skills acquisition. The journalist also called on the youth and other Nigerians to pray and support leaders to enable them succeed in the tasks ahead to better the lot of Nigerians. Kuje also called on the people of the area and other Nigerians to live in peace and respect constituted authorities in the interest of development. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that eight teams: Awogyen Akun, Alashe, Awogben, Awogenshen, Awayi Awalabe, Ekushen and Ezhiba Super Star FC participated in the completion. Prizes were given to the first, second and third positions as well as to players that distinguished themselves during the competition. Ezhiba Super Star FC defeated Awogyen Akun FC by 5-4 in a penalty shoot out after 1-1 draw, to emerge the champion.  (