By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege has expressed shock over the death of Senator Benjamin Uwajimogu, describing it as a deep personal loss. Omo-Agege who expressed sadness in a statement signed by his Special Adviser, Media and Publicity, Mr. Yomi Odunuga, sympathized with the late Senator’s family and the people he represented. The statement reads: Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege has expressed shock and sadness over the death of one of his close colleagues, Senator Benjamin Uwajumogu. Senator Uwajumogu who contributed to debates during the Senate’s plenary session on Tuesday passed away on Wednesday morning. “His death is a matter of deep personal loss for me. My dear friend representing Imo North Senatorial District in the 9th Senate, Senator Benjamin Uwajumogu, a co-member of the APC which he was helping to entrench in the South East, died as an intellectual, a political giant, a successful businessman and a philanthropist par excellence. “He was a devout Christian who passionately shared in our party’s vision for reforms and populist development that can positively impact on many lives now and in the future. “He lived and died as a great ambassador of the Uwajumogu family of Umuihi-Ihitte/ Uboma LGA in Okigwe zone of Imo State to the world. At the age of 25 in 1990, he was the pioneer Chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in his local government area and in 2011, he became Speaker of Imo state House of Assembly. “The practical application of his studies in the USA and France, along with his good works were part of what culminated into his being given the “Industrialist of the Year, 2000” award by the Abia State Chapter of the Nigeria Chamber of Commerce, Trade and Industry, Guardian Newspaper’s ‘Integrity and Credibility’ award and the ‘Paul Harris Fellow’ award by the Rotary Club International, Enugu District. “More importantly, he was a good family man and I pray that God grants his wife, Eileen and children the strength to bear such irreparable loss ,” Senator Omo-Agege stated. Signed: Yomi Odunuga, 
Special Adviser, Media and Publicity, to the Deputy President of the Senate. 