By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Apparently for fear of attacks, the Nigerian high commissioner to Ghana, Ambassador Olufemi Abikoye has urged visiting government officials to make the Nigerian embassies and foreign missions their first point of call when they travel on official trips. Recall that some politically exposed Persons have been attacked in Foreign countries by Nigerian abroad for alleged mismanagement of resources of the country and cirruption. Abikoye stated this during a courtesy visit by the coordinator of Presidential Amnesty Program, Professor Charles Quaker Dokubo and his team. The presidential aide is in Ghana to visit some of the ex-Niger Delta agitators who are currently undergoing training in the West African country. Members of the delegation include House of Representatives members, Professor Steve Azaiki from Bayelsa and his Cross River state counterpart, Honourable Eta Mbora. The team is expected to interact with the students to monitor their progress and listen to their challenges. As part of the visit, Professor Dokubo will also attend the Africa Sustainable Development Award where he will be honoured with Africa Peacemaker Award alongside other recipients from other parts of Africa. Other recipients of the award include Brigadier General Nunoo Mensah who will be receiving a special award for his distinguished impact in public service. Commenting on the award, the envoy praised Professor Dokubo for the international recognition that he has received and urged him to continue to work hard. He further reaffirmed that the Nigerian mission in Ghana stands ready to support Nigerian citizens and government officials in carrying out their legitimate duties in line with the vision of Buhari administration. In his response, Professor Dokubo thanked the ambassador for his kind comments and promised to continue to do everything within his mandate to ensure sustainable peace in the Niger Delta region. Leaders, activists and journalists drawn from across the African continent are scheduled to assemble in Accra, Ghana on Friday, December 20 for the Africa Sustainable Development Awards. The award is an initiative to recognize, reward and celebrate the efforts of distinguished Africans who have made contributions to several sectors towards the advancement of sustainable development goals (SDGs) in the continent.