By Suleiman Shehu Ibadan – The Nigerian Army Officers’ Wives  Association (NAOWA), 2 Division, Ibadan, on Thursday donated relief materials to wives of fallen heroes. The association also donated a new bus to the NAOWA school. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the association also visited the Ibadan Home for Motherless Babies to donate food items as part of the 2019 end-of-the-year activities of the association. Addressing newsmen at the occasion, NAOWA Chairperson, Mrs Stella Omozoje, said the gesture was borne out of the association’s desire to reach out to the less privileged in the society. Omozoje said the gesture was also in line with the vision of NAOWA President, Mrs U. Buratai, which was to provide succor to indigent persons in the barrack community and its environs. “The 18-seater bus is for the convenience of the school, a charitable organisation, because what we take as school fees is just to meet up with necessary needs. “The school is not a profit-making institution. It is NAOWA’s responsibility to buy any major need of the school and that is why we are presenting this bus for the convenvience of the students. “Orphanages are also part of our immediate environment, and I, theerfore, advise organisations to always come to the assistance of the less privileged,” she said. According to her, while NAOWA may not have solutions to the needs of everyone due to scarcity of resources, the association remains committed to its mission to support widows and the needy. In his remarks, Brig.-Gen. O. Soyele, the Garrison Commander in the Division, commended NAOWA for attending to the needs of widows of officers and soldiers. Soyele, who was represented by Major Samuel Iko, Commanding  Officer, 2 Division Garrison, said the association had remained steadfast in improving the welfare of widows. “We shall continue to assist the widows in the aquisition and development of various skills needed for their survival by partnering with NGOs,” he said. Responding on behalf of the widows, Mrs Christiana Habeeb, commended the association for putting smiles on their faces. Also speaking, Mrs Aderi Oke, Assistant Matron, Ibadan Home for Motherless Babies, commended NAOWA for the donation, saying the gesture would help in  giving more to the babies. (NAN)