 LAGOS – The corpse of missing Favour Daley-Oladele, a 400 level student of Theatre Arts at the Lagos State University, LASU, Ojo, has been recovered in a shallow grave in Ogun State, two weeks after her disappearance. The deceased was said to have left her parents’ abode in Mowe area of Ogun State on December 8, 2029, for school. Her boyfriend, Owolabi Adeeko, according to family sources, drove her to school that day. But apprehension set in when efforts by her parents to reach her on phone to ascertain if she had reached school, failed, as her phone was switched off. In the process of searching for her, policemen in Ogun tracked her phone to Ikire area of Ogun State, where her decomposing body was found, with her heart and other organs missing. Her boyfriend was subsequently arrested.
Meanwhile, the Vice Chancellor of LASU, Prof. Olanrewaju Fagbohun, has called for caution over the death of Daley-Oladele, saying that the police had assured that the culprits would be charged to court after investigation.
According to a statement released by Adeola Adekoya, spokesman of LASU, the vice chancellor said the university received the news of the students death with great shock. The full statement reads: “The Vice Chancellor, Lagos State University, Professor Olanrewaju Adigun Fagbohun, SAN, has received with great shock the news of the death of Miss Favour Dailey-Oladele, a final year student of the Department of Theatre Arts of the University. According to the Police, the deceased was murdered around the 8th of December 2019 at Ikoyi Ile in Ikire Osun State, by some individuals who have since been arrested. “The University Management hereby commiserates with the parents and other family members of the deceased, Staff and Students of the Department, and the entire University community. The Police have assured that justice will be served in this case as the perpetrators of this heinous crime will be charged to court immediately investigation is concluded. “The Vice Chancellor on behalf of the University Management hereby calls for caution on this issue on the part of students, and requests that they remain calm to allow law enforcement agents conclude their work. He assured that the University will continue to monitor the case. “The Vice Chancellor also reiterates the commitment of the University Management to the security of lives and property on all campuses of the University.”