… As Governor Inuwa Yahaya praises Mai Kaltungo for sustaining annual festival By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya of has restated the commitment of his administration towards promoting cultural values and heritage as a way of strengthening bond of unity and harmony among the diverse people of the state. Governor Yahaya who was speaking during the 2019 Kaltungo Cultural Festival, held at the Olusegun Obasanjo stadium, Kaltungo, underscored the importance of traditional institution in maintaining history and traditions. The Senior Special Assistant (Media and Publicity), to the governor, Ismaila Uba Misilli disclosed this on Thursday in a statement made available to newsmen. The Governor, who was the Special Guest of Honour at the annual festival, said such events are needed to promote unity in diversity as well as to ensure that young people get acquainted with the historical and cultural values of their communities. While praising the Mai Kaltungo for sustaining the annual cultural fiesta, which is aimed at showcasing the cultural heritage of the people of the Chiefdom, Governor Yahaya urged other traditional rulers to emulate the monarch and initiate programmes and events that will help to entrench peace, unity and tranquility among the different ethno-religious groups in their respective domains. ” All of us are products of our own cultures and traditions. So we must strive to maintain our historical values and heritage, advance them and encourage our young ones to imbibe our good cultures “. ” I commend His Royal Highness, the Mai Kaltungo for maintaining this tradition for quite a while and I enjoin other traditional rulers to emulate him and replicate this in their domains”. He described the Kaltungo carnival as a symbol of unity, not only for the people of the state, but for the north east and the nation as a whole. Governor Yahaya used the occasion to commend President Muhammadu Buhari for placing the country on the path of economic prosperity through his ‘grow and eat made in Nigeria products’ policy, saying his administration has since keyed into all people-oriented policies and programmes of the Federal government, aimed at bettering the lots of the citizenry. Commissioner of Information and Culture, Hon. Ibrahim Alhassan Kwami said his ministry will continue to encourage and promote culture and tourism for the socio-economic development of the state. Earlier, the Mai Kaltungo, Engr. Saleh Mohammed said the annual cultural festival was initiated to preserve the cultural heritage of the people of Kaltungo and to promote unity and intercultural cooperation. He thanked Governor Inuwa Yahaya and other invited guests for honouring his chiefdom with their presence, saying the sate Chief executive’s full participation is unprecedented and will remain indelible in their hearts. Deputy Governor, Dr. Manassah Daniel Jatau, Speaker of Gombe state House of Assembly, Hon. Abubakar Sadiq Kurba, Secretary to the State Government, Professor Ibrahim Abubakar Njodi, Members of National and State Assemblies, Commissioners, Special Advisers and other top Government functionaries as well as the Emir of Gombe and Chairman of Gombe state Council of Emirs and Chiefs, Alhaji Dr. Abubakar Shehu Abubakar III were in attendance. There were goodwill messages from the Emirs of Askira in Borno state, Jajere, Yobe state and the Amna Shelleng, Adamawa state. Apart from the pomp and pageantry that greeted the atmosphere, the Kaltungo carnival also witnessed the presentation of award of honour and appreciation to Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya and other dignitaries for their support towards the success of the event as well as their steadfastness in promoting culture and traditions. 