Some recruiters are known for taking advantage of naive and desperate job seekers, especially when it comes to a scenario that involves two opposite gender. That was the case with a 21-year-old Simisola, a young graduate who attended a job interview. According to her, ”I attended a job interview in a reputable company in 2015. I had just graduated from school and completed my National Youth Service Corps. ”I applied for this job online and got invited for an interview. When I got there the next day, I noticed the recruiter couldn’t stop staring at me. At first, I wasn’t comfortable but I felt that he was just a recruiter and his look might be harmless. ”After the interview, he told me to wait for him at the lounge. I did wait. He walked up to me and we exchanged greetings. He lauded me for my performance during the interview session and requested my phone number. I felt awkward at first but considered it normal and gave him. Perhaps, he could help me during the selection process since he works there. ”I never knew he was in for something else. I didn’t see it coming until he started texting me on WhatsApp. He told me he was interested in me the moment he set my eyes on me. He said he was single and ready to settle down which he wouldn’t mind marrying me if we get to know better. He promised to give me the job if I agree to date him.” Young and naive Simisola fell into the trap. She gave in to the recruiter’s demand and they began dating. Perhaps, she will get a job. But the recruiter never gave her the job. In fact, she wasn’t even selected for the next phase. When she asked him, he said, ”don’t worry about it, you have an automatic slot.” Simi waited endlessly. When she couldn’t bear it anymore, she got impatient and upset with the recruiter. The recruiter realized she has gotten to know about his prank, so he blocked her contacts and told her he wasn’t interested in the relationship anymore. He said he’s married and the poor job seeker should stop texting or calling him. What a wicked world! After taking advantage of her naivety and desperation, he then dumped her. Poor Simisola discovered she was pregnant for him two months after. Dear job seekers, especially the ladies out there, never sell yourself for anything. You can only get a job through hard work and dedication. Network with amazing professionals out there.