…Gives Reason Why Senate Stepped Down Vote Of Confidence On Leadership By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Senate on Thursday dismissed rumour of crack within its fold, but said that its loyalty and support to Senator Ahmed Lawan-led leadership is total. The Senate spokesperson, Sen. Godiya Akwashiki who debunked the rumour while fielding questions from senate Correspondent during Press briefing gave the reasons for stepping down of the motion on the vote of confidence on the leadership of the senate on Tuesday was in order. According to the spokesperson “stepping down the motion should not be anything for anybody to be worried about because it is not a motion of a vote of no confidence, rather its a motion for a vote of confidence. “The motion in question is a vote of confidence so I don’t think it is something to worry about. You can only move a vote of confidence on any leadership when its obvious that the leadership is doing well and if it was a vote of no confidence and it happened that the Senate President has used his power to shut it down, them it would have been an issue but since there was nothing of such, there is no cause for worry, he said. However, the lawmaker advised the public to wait until the date the motion will be moved in the floor of the senate. According to him, “Had it been that the motion was a vote of no confidence on the leadership and the Senate president decided to use his powers to stand down the motion, there you could says something is wrong, but since the sponsor of the bill stood up and said a motion for a vote of confidence you can see we are in order because it is not the only motion that has been stepped down by the 9th senate,” he said.On the number of senators who appended their signatures on the motion, the senate spokesperson said, that was not normal, adding that 36 senators signing for the motion was very okay because the 109 senators can’t sign for a particular motion rather if few sign the rest would debate it on the floor. “A motion can only be moved by one or two persons or more so that when brought to the floor the rest will debate on it, therefore, the number of senators that signed for the motion was in order coupled with the fact that both APC and PDP senators signed,” he opined. Meanwhile, he noted that the senate within the week received and treated three executive bills and held a roundtable discussion on Power, Solid Minerals and Agriculture. It will be recalled that on Tuesday the senate stepped down a motion of a vote of confidence on the leadership of the senate sponsored by Senator Shittima Kashim (APC) Borno and 35 others.