By Stanley Nwanosike Enugu – The Nigerian Army on Tuesday offered free medical services to no fewer than 640 residents in Adani community in Uzo-Uwani Local Government Area of Enugu State. During the outreach staged by the 82 Division of the Nigerian Army, the residents got 300 free pairs of eye glasses, HIV/AIDS tests, insecticide treated nets, physiotherapy massage and de-worming of children, as well as free drugs. Speaking at the event, Brig.-Gen. Sylvester Oloyede, the Commander of 82 Division Garrison, said that the free medical outreach was part of the ongoing “Exercise Atilogwu Udo 1’’. Oloyede, who is also the Commander of Sector 5 of ongoing “Exercise Atilogwu Udo 1’’, noted that the exercise was meant to further strengthen Civil-Military Cooperation (CIMIC) in the Division’s area of responsibility in the South-East and Cross River. “The exercise is meant to win the hearts and minds of the host communities and further provide them with some humanitarian and community assistance. “It is also in line with the Chief of Army Staff vision for Nigerian Army to be responsive and cater for the welfare of the host community throughout the country,’’ he said. Igwe Patrick Ezeugwu, the traditional ruler of the community, lauded the Nigerian Army for taking the pain to reach the community notwithstanding its remoteness in the state. “The community is overwhelmed with joy for such good tiding of sound health the army is giving us today as well as health counseling that comes with it,’’ Ezeugwu said. A beneficiary of the exercise, Mr Gabriel Okwor, said he was happy for the kind gesture of the Nigerian Army, adding: “This medical outreach will definitely go a long way to check health challenges of our people. “I pray that God will continue to grant the Nigerian Army successes in its campaigns and intervene in its challenges,’’ Okwor said. Another beneficiary, Pa Anslem Ugwuanyi, said that he was grateful for the comprehensive eye check-up and pair of reading eye glasses given to him free-of-charge. Ugwuanyi said that his impression of the army had changed, adding: “from today, I now know that they are working for my interest.’’ The Commander of 82 Division Medical Services, Lt. Col. Ijoma Ijomanta, said that common illnesses diagnosed in the outreach included malaria, cataract and blood pressure. (NAN)