By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Few days after the signing into law of the 2020 budget by Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, the Gombe state Fiscal Responsibility Commission has prepared and published a report containing analysis of the state’s appropriation Act. According to the statement signed by the Gombe state governor’s Senior Special Assistant (Media and Publicity), Ismaila Uba Misilli, this is the first time such a report is being produced in 7 years which the Agency’s Chairman, Abubakar Inuwa Tata said is part of the commission’s determination to put currency to its key mandate of transparency. Tagged “Understanding Gombe State 2020 Budget of Change”, the report highlights the policy thrust of Governor Inuwa Yahaya’s administration and its strategic priorities as well as an analysis of the macro-fiscal framework including the State fiscal forecasts for 2020. The report, which analyzed the sectoral breakdown of revenue, expenditure and financing, including internal and external risks to the implementation of the budget, risks mitigants and disclosure, recommended aggressive but sustainable revenue drive covering taxes, levies, tenement and ground rent, etc. On the expenditure side, the report recommends stringent fiscal measures such as strict adherence to financial regulation, fiscal responsibility and due process in the conduct of government business as well as the establishment of cash management committee and efficiency unit. It also recommends speedy passage of the procurement bill, a new tax law, revision of financial regulations and subsequent enactment of the financial regulation into law among many others. The Gombe state Fiscal Responsibility Commission is an agency, established in February 2012, with the responsibility of guaranteeing prudent management of the State’s resources and ensuring long-term macro-economic stability of the State’s economy. It was to achieve this objective through securing greater accountability and transparency in the state’s fiscal operations within a fiscal policy framework, pursuant to attaining the overall socio-economic development of the state. However, the agency had remained dormant and invisible until recently when a World Bank Scholar and Columbia University-trained economist, Abubakar Inuwa Tata was appointed to strengthen the institution as part of Governor Inuwa Yahaya’s determination to rid Gombe State of poor governance and corruption. This is in a bid to place back the state on a sure path of progress and development. A Senior Management Staff of the Central Bank of Nigeria with vast experience in economic research, statistical analysis and development planning, Mr. Abubakar Inuwa resumed duties in the first week of December 2019. As a Public Financial Manager, Mr. Inuwa immediately deployed his energy and passion in a determined manner to create a sustainable framework that would enable him deliver his mandate effectively and efficiently. 