By Aisha Cole  Lagos – Some fun seekers at the National Art Theater, Lagos, expressed satisfaction to the pleasant atmosphere at the theatre which they said had blew off the economic challenge facing them. Some of the fun seekers, who spoke separately in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), said they really enjoyed the atmosphere of the theatre environment on Thursday in Lagos. One of the fun seekers and a Naval Officer, Mr Samson Odiri, said that his kids and his wife were having fun under the tree playing with bouncing castle while he and friend enjoy themselves at the theatre bar. According to him, “this is my second time of coming here, I enjoy the Yoruba stage movie I watched with my family, my kids are playing with bouncing castle and running around the big environment”. Another fun seeker, Mrs Patient Duru, said she only came with her niece and her two baby boys to ride horse, adding that her husband had been hurrying them to leave but said she would have loved to wait. A mother of two, Mrs Juliet Okonkwo said she came with her kids on Wednesday to watch movies and they were here to ride horse and enjoy the amazing atmosphere with her family on Thursday. A Mechanical Engineer, Mr Sylvester Eromosele, who said he had been patronising the theatre since 1999, but noted that said the environment was not crowdy as it used to be. He urged the management of the theatre to improve on the to attract more fun seekers during festive periods. Responding to the observations, one of the officials of the National Art Theatre, who pleaded anonymity, told NAN on Wednesday that the turn out of people watching movies was at average while they were having low turnout on Thursday. “Many people trooped out to watch the three movies; Areonakakanfo is a stage play while the two others Hertitude and Blackveil are movies. “Majority of the fun seekers watched at least two movies intermittently yesterday before playing with their kids at the opening ground,” the official said. He attributed economic challenges to the low turn out of fun activities at the theatre, noting that the seekers prefer to play with horse and other toys than watching films. (NAN)