By Yinusa Ishola Omu-Aran (Kwara) – A group, Kwara South Youth Development Organisation, says its maiden conference next Thursday in Omu-Aran would accelerate the growth and socio-economic development of the state. Titilope Akogun, Conference Convener, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the forum would feature experts in Information Communication Technology (ICT), Agribusiness, health, entrepreneurship and Digital Media. NAN reports that the conference has as its theme: “Kwara South Today, Building a Better Tommorow”. “Fifty participants are selected from each of seven council’s in Kwara South District – Ekiti, Oke-Ero, Isin, Irepodun, Ifelodun, Oyun and Offa. “The conference will be a veritable platform for youth from various towns and villages to interract and strategies for the growth, progress and socio-economic development of the district,” he said. Akogun said the conference would be declared open by the Kwara State Deputy Governor, Mr Kayode Alabi, while senator representing Kwara South Senatorial District, Sen. Lola Ashiru, would be keynote speaker. He listed the topics for discussion to include Embracing Entrepreneurship, ICT and Agribusiness and Empowerment for Wealth Creation and Growth. Others are Public Health, Drug Abuse and Community Development as they affect Kwara South Investment in Community Development through Health, Human Capital Development as well as Digital Media and Youth Participation in Politics and Governance. Some resource persons for the conference areDr Abdulsalam Olabisi, Chief Medical Director, Offa General Hospital, Dr Rafiu Ajiboye, Gynaecologist and Community Practitioner, Dr Seyi Adigun, Lead Director, Lazforte Medicals, Prof. Wale Suleiman, Special Assistant on Health to the Governor of Kwara State. Others are Mr Raheem Olawuyi, Member, House of Representatives, Chief Raheem Adedoyin, Secretary, IPI, Yinka Dallas, Youth Leader and Activist, Mr Rafiu Ajakaye, Chief Press Secretary to the Kwara State Governor, Mrs Bolanle Olukoju, Dr Abdulwaheed Musa, Senior Lecturer, Kwara State University, Malete and Editor, Kwara at 50. (NAN)