…Inaugurates State Assembly Service Commission, Government Liaison Officers …says delivery of
democracy dividends paramount to his govt By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – 
Governor of Oyo state, Seyi Makinde has said that there is clear
separation of powers amongst the three arms of government even as he warned
against having rubber-stamp legislature. Makinde stated this on
Tuesday, while  inaugurated the members
of the House of Assembly Service Commission and the Government Liaison Officers
appointed to oversee the 14 federal constituencies in the State. The Governor also stated that
his administration remained determined to empower the people and deliver
dividends of democracy to the people of the State. A statement signed by the
Chief Press Secretary to Governor Makinde, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, indicated that the
Governor stated these at the Executive Chamber of the Governor’s Office,
Secretariat, Agodi, Ibadan, while inaugurating the two bodies. During the inauguration of
the House of Assembly Service Commission headed by the immediate past Deputy
Speaker of the Oyo State House of Assembly, Honourable Abdulwasi Musah, the
Governor charged the Commission to remain independent and to guide the House of
Assembly on that path. He said: “I will like to
congratulate the members of the House of Assembly Service Commission on your
appointment, which was based on merit. Honourable Abdulwasi Musah, you have
been the Deputy Speaker before and I believe the experience you have gathered
in such an exalted position will be utilized in this present assignment. And I
also need to say that there is a clear distinction between politics and
governance. “Governance is looking after
the wider interest of the entire state while politics deals with one’s
political leaning but this is governance and we want you to have the wider
interest of the state at heart in discharging your duties. “I also need to add that
there is a clear separation of powers between the Executive, Legislature and
the Judiciary. So, we don’t want a
rubber-stamp legislature. “We want you to assist
us to achieve that objective where debates are very robust. Sometimes, I may
even sign things that will come to the House of Assembly, which are not totally
my idea because I and other executive members take decisions based on
consensus. So, my personal preference does not fly sometimes when we hold exco
meetings.” Similarly, Governor Makinde,
while inaugurating the Governorship Liaison Officers, said they were put in
place as his eyes and ears across the State in order to assist him in the
onerous task of empowering the people of the State. He charged them to ensure
effective feedbacks to the Government in order for it to be able to deliver on
its promises to deliver the dividends of democracy to the people at the
grassroots. The Governor said: “During
the campaign, I promised the people that nobody will reap from where he has not
sown and I won’t give what belongs to someone who has worked to another person
who has not done anything. So, I am counting on you to assist me and this
administration to come true on that promise. You will all be the unifier in your
various federal constituencies. “This is fulfilling for me
because I now have eyes and ears in all the federal constituencies in Oyo
State. The assignment for you is very simple and straight forward. We have to
empower our people. Though we do have party machinery in all the federal
constituencies but, sometimes, just like we experienced choosing interim
officers for the local government, the party apparatus in most places is
polarised. So, you are the people I am relying on to unify the party apparatus. “It does not matter
which faction you belong to or where you are all coming from. Before the 2019
election, late 2018 to be precise, all of us came from different places. We met
some inside PDP and some came from the Labour Party. Some came from SDP too but
we thank God that our journey from then till now has been fruitful. So, you
must all have it at the back of your mind that your assignment is solely based
on the empowerment of the good people of Oyo State. “Also, while undertaking
your duties, you must know that feedback to the government is essential. My
appeal to you is, use this position to take dividends of democracy to the
people at the grassroots.” In their separate responses,
the chairman of the House of Assembly Commission, Dr. Abdulwasi Musah and the
chairman of the Liaison Officers, Chief Jacob Adetoro, both appreciated the
Governor for the confidence reposed in the members of their separate bodies,
promising to discharge the responsibilities in the interest of the State. Wasi said: “As a former
Deputy Speaker and a Ph.D. holder in Law, I will put my experience as well as
my academic achievement in bear towards working in line with what the Governor
said. “We will ensure that the
autonomy of the parliament is ensured in all that we do, even though that will
not be translated into making the parliament to stand in friction with the
Executive or the Judicial arm of Government. So, that is our mandate and we
promise the people of Oyo State that we will live up to that promise.” In the same vein, Adetoro
said: “We are grateful to the Governor of Oyo State for counting us worthy
of these positions, and I want to pledge that we shall not disappoint you. We
see ourselves now as the bridge that links the party to the government and we
shall do our best to promote that course with fairness and all the rest of it. “Since we have been
given this assignment now, I know that every one of us will sit up and perform
our responsibilities.” 