By Florence Onuegbu Lagos – Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Wednesday expressed joy over the Supreme Court verdict, which affirmed him as the duly elected governor of the state. In a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Gboyega Akosile, Sanwo-Olu said  the victory was for the people of Lagos. He said the judicial affirmation of his election victory would further reinforce his desire to vigorously pursue his vision of bequeathing a legacy of a ‘Greater Lagos’ to the residents at the end of his tenure. A seven-man panel of the apex court led by Justice Mary Peter-Odili upheld the victory of Sanwo-Olu in the March 9, 2019 election, after dismissing two separate appeals of the Labour party and the Alliance for Democracy, for lack of merit. Sanwo-Olu said he had absolute confidence in the judiciary, knowing that it would adjudicate on the side of the people of Lagos, who freely gave him the mandate to administer the state on their behalf for the four-year tenure. ”As the last hope of the common man, I was never in doubt that the judiciary would do what is right and what is just. ”The people of Lagos spoke loudly through their votes on the day of election and their action gave us victory. We remain thankful and indebted to them,” he said. The governor thanked the leadership of his political party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), supporters and well-wishers who had remained steadfast from March 9, 2019, after the election, up to this moment. He said  his administration was committed to the T.H.E.M.E.S agenda, which was aimed at delivering a future forward Lagos to the citizens. Sanwo-Olu called on his opponents to join in his efforts to make Lagos a destination for commerce, industry, tourism, sports and entertainment as encapsulated in the T.H.E.M.E.S agenda. ”Our administration is already on the path of meaningful developmental strides. ”With this victory, people of Lagos state are set to enjoy more of infrastructural development and people-oriented programmes, which will accelerate the standard of living. ”I therefore urge the opposition to join hands with me in our quest to move our dear state forward and to give abundant life to our people,” he said. (NAN)