…Says Growth Outlook Vulnerable Abuja (Sundiata Post) –  The poverty rate in Nigeria could become worse, with up to 30 million more people falling into the extreme poverty trap in the next 10 years, unless Federal Government policy reforms bring about robust productivity and inclusive growth. The World Bank
disclosed this in its latest Nigeria Economic Update, obtained from its
website. “Nigeria’s
population is expected to grow by as much as 35 million in the next decade and
unless the pace of growth and job creation accelerates, the country will
account for a quarter of all people living in extreme poverty worldwide. “Creating new opportunities for this rapidly
increasing labour force will require a new economic model based on productivity
growth,” warned Marco Hernandez, World Bank Lead Economist for Nigeria, and
co-author of the latest Nigeria Economic Update. “Without robust
productivity growth, the report warns that living standards will continue to
deteriorate, and the number of people living in poverty will continue to rise,
increasing by more than 30 million by 2030,” the report said. It said Nigeria
could enable millions of citizens escape poverty over the next decade through
enacting bold reforms designed to boost economic productivity, according to the
latest economic analysis. Vulnerable
growth outlook It said, “The
country’s growth outlook is vulnerable to domestic and global risks. It is
facing a sharper than expected slowdown in the global economy, as well as
geopolitical and trade tensions. “Domestically,
the predictability of macroeconomic policies, the pace of structural reforms,
and the country’s security situation are the main risks.” Key to boosting
the country’s productivity, it said “How successfully the economy transforms
land, labour, capital and other inputs into goods and services–was low compared
to peer countries, hindering economic growth, job creation, and living
standards.” The update analysed the evolution of productivity in Nigeria and
the policies and institutions which could help accelerate Nigeria’s economic
expansion and create new job opportunities. Also outlined in
the report are four priority areas that would lay the foundation for Nigeria’s
transition to a new economic model that more effectively uses its large, young
population and abundant natural resources to support sustainable growth and
poverty reduction These include
policy transparency and predictability, which would be critical to reduce
investment risk and promote growth outside the extractive industry. Others include
massive investments in infrastructure, strengthening land tenure security;
reduction in regulatory discretion in to attract domestic and foreign
investment into the non-oil sector, as well as, improve access to finance which
could enable new firms to compete with incumbents and allow more productive
firms to scale up their operations. The report also
recommended building momentum for reforms, which are essential to mitigate
risks and promote faster, more inclusive and sustainable growth that improves
living standards and reduces poverty. Reform areas
which the bank identified as critical to Nigeria rapid growth include
leveraging trade integration to harness the benefits of the Africa Continental
Free Trade Area; Improved basic education financing to improve human capital
outcomes; Monitoring the impact of conflict on the welfare of households to
protect poor and vulnerable people; and leveraging digital technologies to
diversify the economy and create jobs for young workers. With reforms in
these and others, the report noted that Nigeria would be able to strengthen its
macroeconomic resilience, promote private sector development, and improve the
efficiency of public service delivery. Terrorism,
herder/farmer conflicts slowing agric It noted that
agricultural growth increased slightly, but remains affected by insurgency in
the North East region, and ongoing farmer-herder conflicts in the mainly
agricultural belt of the nation.Manufacturing production slowed, it added, “due
to the weaker power supply sector.” It noted,
“Overall, the slow pace of recovery in 2019 is attributable to weak consumer
demand and lower public and private investment.”