By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata
Post) – Plateau state governor, Simon Lalong has informed that he will not
leave any project started by his administration uncompleted before leaving
office in 2023. The Director of
Press and Public Affairs, Dr Makut Macham, in a statement said that the
governor made the pledge while inspecting ongoing “legacy projects” across the
state. “We want to
complete the projects during our tenure to avoid the problem of abandoned
projects. “We decided to
complete the projects we inherited, but you can’t be sure of what those coming
behind us will do. “They may not
focus on it if we don’t complete it which will become waste while the people
continue to suffer,” he said. Lalong in the
company of his Deputy, Prof. Sonni Gwanle Tyoden, and other top government
officials were at the Potato Tissue Culture Laboratory in Mangu Local
Government which is almost completed. The Potato
Tissue Culture Laboratory is meant to produce a quality variety of seedlings
that are resistant to diseases that are currently ravaging the crop in the
state. The facility
will also provide the platform for educating farmers in the state on various
ways of value addition to the potatoes for preservation and export. The governor
expressed delight at the facility which he said was part of the grand design to
usher in a new phase in potatoes farming in the state. According to
him, potatoes are a crop that the state has a comparative advantage in, but has
not been able to maximise its advantage. “When I laid the foundation for this facility,
I stated clearly that we have to take the production of potatoes beyond where
it is today. “We have to
produce it all year round and add value to it for domestic consumption and
export. “The situation
where farmers produce potatoes that are wasted or sold at giveaway prices does
not help us because we lack the capacity for value addition. “This has to
change as we must create more jobs for our youths and increase the earning
capacity of farmers,” he said. Lalong, who was
also at the Panyam General Hospital Legacy Project, was told that the project
was slowed down because of compensation issues. He expressed
sadness over the development and directed the Local Government  Chairman
and the Traditional Ruler of the area to ensure that such issues were resolved
immediately. Another legacy
project visited by the governor was Government College, Pankshin, which was
being to transformed into its original status of a technical institution since
it was initially a Craft School. He was happy
that the work has gone up to 60 per cent and expressed hope that it would be
inaugurated in the first quarter of 2020. “We are
determined to entrench technical education in our educational system in order
to develop skills that are needed to empower our youths and turn them into
entrepreneurs and job creators rather than job seekers. “When we do
that, we are sure of eliminating poverty and crime and enhancing peace,” Lalong
said.