A best man went on a drunken rampage at his brother’s wedding and assaulted the bride, her mother and sisters, a court heard. Tomos Rhydian Wilson lost his temper at the reception – saying his sibling should never have married his new sister-in-law. Wilson threw punches at bride Erin Mason-George and even grabbed her by her wedding dress – pulling her downstairs, a court heard. District Judge Gwyn Jones found Wilson, who was working at a prison officer at the time, guilty of the five charges of assault as well as two charges of criminal damage. The 29-year-old, who was the best man at the wedding, had assaulted Erin, two of her sisters and her mother, as well as a manager at Lampeter’s Falcondale Hotel, Wales. Prosecutor Kevin Challinor said on July 27, Wilson, of Swansea, had reacted angrily when the family tried to get his brother Steffan – the groom – to go to bed as he was drunk. While they tried to help groom Steffan upstairs, Wilson started hurling abuse at the Mason-George family, it was claimed. He said his brother should never have married Ms Mason-George and that he was “no longer a Wilson”, the court was told. Ms Mason-George told the trial that things escalated with Wilson trying to throw punches at her. He grabbed her wedding dress and pulled it, causing her to fall down a flight of stairs, she said. Mr Challinor told the hearing that during the incident Wilson assaulted Ms Mason-George’s mother, Linda, and her younger sister Dion, and also grabbed Ms Mason-George’s other sister, Cally, by the neck, causing reddening. Wilson was additionally charged with damaging the hotel manager’s shirt and fixtures and fittings at the Falcondale. He denied all the charges and defence solicitor Tom Roberts said the incident had been sparked by Ms Mason-George and her family. He told the court Wilson had reacted after seeing Ms Mason-George first slap and swear at his brother, before seeing her and her family assisting Steffan up the stairs where he claimed Ms Mason-George had pushed him, causing him to fall. Mr Roberts alleged both Ms Mason-George and her sister Cally had thrown punches at Wilson and that Ms Mason-George later threw a vase and glass bottle at him, which she denied. Giving evidence on Tuesday morning, Harry Wilson, the other best man, said he saw Ms Mason-George “slap” groom Steffan, saying it was time for bed. He claimed he saw Steffan fall down stairs and Wilson went to help him, but said Ms Mason-George threw punches at Wilson, which connected, while other members of her family “lunged” at Steffan. Harry said Wilson had not assaulted anybody and had got away from the area while he helped Steffan. Giving evidence on Tuesday morning, Harry Wilson, the other best man, said he saw Ms Mason-George “slap” groom Steffan, saying it was time for bed. He claimed he saw Steffan fall down stairs and Wilson went to help him, but said Ms Mason-George threw punches at Wilson, which connected, while other members of her family “lunged” at Steffan. Harry said Wilson had not assaulted anybody and had got away from the area while he helped Steffan. Source