 AWKA – The Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) weekend disassociated itself from the rumoured plan to attack Anambra State office of the Directorate of State Services (DSS) by pro-Biafra agitators.
In a statement by MASSOB National Secretary Comrade Ugwuoke Ibem Ugwuoke, the group reiterated its role as a non-violence organisation it has no intention or plan to indulge in acts of violence or terrorism. The statement partly reads: “The rumoured plan or information to attack Anambra state headquarters of DSS through the instruments of explosives and bombs by pro Biafra Agitators is not achievable and realisable. It is a suicide mission that will derail our principle of non-violence and peaceful agitation. “As MASSOB remains apolitical and non-violence, MASSOB warns other pro Biafra groups to resist and avoid any activities that will endanger the lives of their members because hundreds of lives of gallant Biafra Agitators have been lost unnecessarily. “We cannot heat up the polity now that millions of Biafrans are in their respective villages celebrating Christmas and upcoming New Year.” MASSOB observed that the rumoured plan to attack Nigeria security outfit is orchestrated by rumour mongers and enemies of Biafra who always delight in blackmailing the actualisation struggle for Biafra. It warned desperate politicians who are planning to use thugs and cultists in disguise as pro Biafra Agitators to cause mayhem in Igbo land especially in Anambra state because of election to desist from such destructive ambitions. The group vowed to resist any illegalities that will discredit its image. Similarly, the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has washed its hands off the purported plot, describing it as absurd. It said in a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Comrade Emma Powerful, that the originators and peddlers of the rumour need psychiatric intervention. The statement reads in part: “Biafrans are peacefully going about their agitation and not concerned about the machinations of staff of DSS office in Anambra State. “Biafraland is peaceful and shall remain so. DSS, Army, Police, Civil Defence, Customs and other AK47 wielding groups in Nigeria should focus all their energies in the north and leave Biafraland alone. “The day IPOB decides to take to arm struggle, the Sun will not set until we get march into Gobir to free the captives of the caliphate. “This type of unfounded rumour is alcohol fuelled idiocy that doesn’t merit a reasonable response. “During this festive period it wouldn’t surprise us should some people decide to overindulge in free flowing alcohol at village fetes which predictably will dispose them to hallucinations.” (News Express)