By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Sen Orji Uzor Kalu has been used to comfortable life and can’t easily put up with certain life-style even in prison. He exhibited this even as he was taken to his small-space cell at Kuje prison. Senator Orji
Kalu who upon conviction pleaded with security agents not to publicly embarrass
him by putting hand cuff on his hands, got to his small cell in Kuje and directed
that his cell be repainted to white. A source close to prison management which pleaded anonymity disclosed this to Sundiata Post. The source further told our reporter who said he wanted to see the senator that the heat is too much now to see Senator Orji Uzor Kalu. Recall that Justice Mohammed Idris of the Federal High Court, Lagos,
on Thursday, sentenced a former governor of Abia State, Orji Uzor Kalu, to
12 years’ imprisonment. The court found him and his co-defendants guilty of the
entire 39 counts filed against them by the Economic and Financial Crimes
Commission. Kalu was convicted alongside his firm, Slok Nigeria Limited,
and Jones Udeogu, who served under him as the Director of Finance and Account
at the Abia State Government House in Umuahia. While
Udeogu was sentenced to 10 years’ imprisonment, the judge ordered the winding
up of Slok Nigeria Limited, holding that his assets and properties be forfeited
to government. Out of
the 39 counts filed against the trio, the judge convicted Kalu of the entire 28
counts in which his name featured. On each of counts 1-11 and 39, he was
sentenced to five years’ imprisonment; on each of counts 23-33, he was
sentenced to three years’ imprisonment; and on each of counts 34-38, he was
sentenced to 12 years’ imprisonment. Justice
Idris said the sentences shall run concurrently, meaning that Kalu will spend
12 years in jail. As for
the second convict, Udeogu, Justice Idris found him guilty of 11 out of the 16
counts in which his name featured. He was pronounced not guilty on five counts.
On each of counts 23-25 and 27-32, Udeogu was sentenced to three years’
imprisonment. On each of counts 34-38, he was sentenced to 10 years; while the
judge gave him five years on count 39. He
said the sentences would run concurrently, meaning that Udeogu will spend 10
years in jail. In
respect of Slok Nigeria Limited, Justice Idris pronounced, “An order is hereby
made that the third convict shall without further assurances but from this
order be wound up and all the assets and properties forfeited.” In
pronouncing the convicts guilty, Justice Idris said the EFCC proved its case
beyond reasonable doubt, saying, “I, sincerely, cannot find my way clear in
finding these defendants not guilty of the offences charged.” The judge hailed the investigation crystallising into the charge as in-depth
and conclusive, saying “No gaps were left unfilled. This is the acceptable
standard.” He
said, “I hold the view that the prosecution has established its case against
the defendants; it did not fall short of the standard required by law in money
laundering offences. It is clear upon the facts before this court that the
prosecution had this case conclusively investigated before opting to bring this
charge against the defendants. In other words, the prosecution did an in-depth
and conclusive investigation.