By Stellamaris Ashinze and Funmilola Gboteku Lagos – The Beer Sectoral Group (BSG) of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), in collaboration with the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), on Thursday commenced the “Don’t Drink and Drive” Park Rally across the country. Mr Tony Eneh, the Executive Secretary of BSG, said the group donated breathalyzers to the FRSC during the rally at Ojota and Ketu parks. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports BSG had earlier launched the ‘Don’t Drink and Drive” campaign to create awareness of the danger of drunk driving. Eneh said the breathalyzers were for the FRSC to determine alcohol intake by drivers while driving. According to him, the group was happy to give back to the country by creating awareness on the dangers of drunk driving through the “Don’t Drink and Drive” rally and by donating breathalyzers. Also speaking at the occasion, The Lagos State Sector Commander, FRSC, Corp Commander, Hyginus Omeje, said the “ember” months campaign was an integral component of the FRSC’s strategic intervention to elevate the consciousness of Nigerians to the realities of road crashes. The sector commander said dangerous overtaking and speeding remained the greatest risk factors on highways. He said a survey it carried out showed that 204 motorists tested positive to alcohol use out of 2,058 randomly tested with breathalyzer within Lagos-Ibadan expressway command. According to him, Driving Under Influence (DUI) was the highest among drivers who accounted for 154 positive cases. Omeje said in Lagos State, road traffic crashes and fatalities recorded from the first to third quarters of 2018 stood at 225 and 74 respectively. According to him, the statistics over the same period in 2019 currently stood at 419 crashes and 84 fatalities, which translated to 51 per cent increase in crash cases and 14 per cent fatalities. “These are colossal human capital with frightening impact on health systems, sustainable development, city liveability and survivability of society. “Available statistics have annually depicted increased road traffic crashes during the period of September to December. “Risk exposure to road crashes during terminal months of the year, especially December, escalates due to increased socio-economic activities, inordinate traffic surge that over stretch road transport system,” he said. The FRSC commander appreciated the different groups and individuals, who had contributed and supported the commission on its campaign on safe road system.