A caucasian woman identified as Debby, has replied internet trolls who accused her young Nigerian husband of marrying her in order to secure green card. Michael and Debby got married a year and five months ago. Yesterday, they shared a video of them taking a stroll while holding hands. Internet trolls saw the video and left comments implying that Michael was after Princess for papers. Replying a comment, Michael said he got his papers six months ago and still hasn’t left Nigeria. ”We have been married for a year and 5months after a year plus in relationship, I got my papers 6months ago yet still in Nigeria with my wife, I’m a sailor with a well paid job, if is the paper I would have left Nigeria since.I love my wife @irishangelprincess and you all should love your partners too and forget the hatred and love unconditionally. Thanks @lindaikejiblogofficial for the Love” he replied a troll Debby also took out time to fire back at trolls: When a person appears in the public limelight, no matter the level, they are always exposed to an element of negativity – the strength & courage is to not be baited or drawn in by peoples lack of common sense, shallowness & keyboard warrior judgement. So, instead I thought I’d try educating those who cannot see past the end of their noses. Despite my husband having received his papers over 6 months ago, it has been his choice for us to remain here in Nigeria whilst we launch our Foundation which its aimed at changing so many lives here as well as investing in various areas of business. Intact, it is I myself who has benefitted the most by being granted my Niger Wife green card which is allowing me the freedom to enjoy this Country.Whilst I may be a little older than my husband, I wear my heart on my sleeve. Instead of hiding behind wigs, false eyelashes & a wheelbarrow full of make up to the point I look like a completely different person ( many guys I know can relate to this in women), I believe in letting my natural beauty shine through.. So for those shallow minded women who spout negativity & jealously, many of you are the ones who seek out only a rich man or husband to provide for you, yet when the riches start to disappear, you cheat or leave Likewise the shallow minded men who marry a wife for her beauty, yet when it fades you seek out others or some even take side chicks within their marriage. Yet here I am, open to your negativity & narrow mindedness and I can only but smile at your own misgivings.So, on this beautiful blessed Sunday I can hold my head up high and be very proud of who I am and perhaps respectfully suggest that those of you who are jealous of others, or can only express negativity from behind the safety of your laptop or phone, may I respectfully suggest you stand in front of the mirror today and take a good honest look at yourself both inside & out…..and ask yourself am I a real genuine person or am I living a fake life just to be accepted My husband @angelmichaeljunior & I can proudly stand tall knowing we are genuinely one. Happy Sunday people Thanks to @lindaikejiblogoffical & @herodaniels for the love Source