By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The year 2019 has been characterized by some political developments- the good, bad and the ugly. All contributed in shaping the political temperaments of Nigerians in the out-going year. Here are the highlights of some of the activities. 2019 General Election One of the
major political developments in Nigeria this year is the 2019 general election
conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The election
which was adjudged the worst election in Nigeria since return to civil rule in
1999 was conducted by Prof Mahmood Yusuf-led INEC. The election was
characterized by alleged violent, rigging, vote buying, snatching of ballot
boxes and thuggery. When Prof.
Mahmood first cancelled the election few hours to its commencement, President
Muhammadu  Buhari threatened that
somebody must explain why the election was cancelled after some electoral
materials have been sent out and more so after all the money demanded were
released in good time. Another
thing that heated up the political space during election was the threat by the
Kaduna state governor, Nasir El’rufai that foreign observers who sought to
intervene in the country’s election would go back in body bags. He gave the
threat while reacting to concerns expressed by European Union, United States
and Britain over the suspension of Chief Justice Walter Onnoghen over
allegation of breaching asset declaration rules. Arrest of Convener of #Revolution Now
Protest and Publisher of Sahara Reporters, Omoyele Sowore Omoyele
Sowore was arrested in Lagos on August 3 for alleged treason by the Department
of Security Services (DSS). He was organizing #RevolutionNow movement calling
for peaceful demonstration against bad governance in Nigeria. He called for
revolution because he said Nigeria’s elections were not credible. That followed
the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari. According to
him, “All that was needed for a #Revolution is for the oppressed to choose a
date they desire for liberty, not subjected to the approval of the oppressor”
he tweeted on 2nd August. One day later, on the 3rd of
August, he sent another tweet: DSS invades Sowore’s. He has since been charged
with treason, money laundering and cyberstalking for allegedly sharing false and
insulting information about President Muhammadu Buhari. He denied all the
charges. Kogi/Bayelsa Governorship  Election On Saturday,
November 16, 2019, the INEC conducted four elections across two states. For the
first time, INEC held two off-cycle governorship elections on the same day. Sporadic
violence marred polls in two states despite a heavy security presence after a
bloody run-up to the elections. Bayelsa
and central Kogi are among the seven states where governorship elections are
held at different times from the general election due to court rulings. One of
the unexpected that happened during the Kogi election was the burning to death
of a party’s women leader with her family while inside their house . Again,
INEC performance in the election in the two states was short of expectation and
that received wide condemnation within and outside the country. Early Passage and
Signing Of 2020 Budget Since the return to democratic governance in 1999, Nigeria’s
budget cycle had remained problematic, disconnected and in most cases militated
against the development of the country. Recall that the 2019 budget was passed in April 2019. Buhari’s desire that Nigeria returns to the January-December
budget cycle has spurred the National Assembly into action as members speedily
passed the budget on schedule. “This positive
development will bring about a lot of gains for the country, both within and
outside, as even development partners will easily align their projects, plans
and programmes with our new budget cycle, supporters said. “The passage of
N10.59 trillion recorded about N263.946 billion addition by the National
Assembly. “It is worthy of note
also that based on the importance the Federal Government attaches to education,
the education sector got the second largest allocation of N490 billion, after
Defence. “The early passage of
the budget did not happen by chance, but as a result of the cooperation
currently existing between the Executive and the Legislature,” Sack of 35 Aides of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo President
Muhammadu Buhari’s sack of thirty five aides of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo’s
was also part of the major political developments in the years under review. Nigerian Government has said it sacked 35 aides of Vice
President, Yemi Osinbajo, to “save money”.Osinbajo, whose responsibility as
head of the nation’s economic team was taken away few months ago, had been the
subject of power cuts in recent times within the Presidency. Presidential spokesperson, Garba
Shehu, said in a series of tweets that the motive was to save taxpayers money. The tweet reads, “The Presidency
wishes to confirm that there is on-going, an unprecedented overhaul of the
nation’s seat of government arising from which a number of political
appointments have either been revoked or not renewed. “The exercise, which has
been ordered by the President, is to streamline decision-making, cut down
multiple authorities and reduce the cost of administration. “It is also an
appropriate response to the general perception that the Presidency has an
oversized and bloated workforce which acts as a drag on efficiency. Conviction of Senator Orji Uzor Kalu Former
governor of Abia State and senate majority whip, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu was
convicted by the Lagos division of the Federal High Court on Thursday, December
5, 2019. However, after five days in detention, he prayed to court to grant him
bail pending the determination of of an appeal against his conviction. Senator Kalu,
representing Abia North, was sentenced to 12 years in prison for a N7.6 billion
fraud. The court ordered that assets belonging to the former governor’s
company, Slok Nigeria Limited be forfeited to the Federal Government. The
governor is cooling off now in a correctional facility in Nigeria. Arrest of Mohammed Bello Adoke
in Dubai by Interpol The former Attorney-general, Mohammed Adoke was arrested on
November 11, 2019 in Dubai by the Interpol. Mr Adoke was arrested shortly after arriving in Dubai where he
had travelled for medical evaluation after a court warrant for his arrest was
vacated in October. Justice Danladi Z. Zenchi of the Federal Territory High Court
had in April issued a warrant for Mr Adoke’s arrest following an ex-parte
application by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The EFCC has been pursuing Mr Adoke over claims that he was
involved in the controversial Malabu Oil deal. Mr Adoke strongly denied links
to the alleged fraud, and has been on self-exile since vacating office in May
2015. He has repeatedly cited a court judgment that said he could not
be prosecuted for actions he took while in office based on presidential
directives. Justice Zenchi invalidated the arrest warrant on October 25
based on prayers from Mr Adoke’s lawyers who argued that the order was
wrongfully procured. The judge also asked the EFCC which seeks to prosecute Mr Adoke to serve him the court papers by substituted means. Shiites Protests and Killing of Channel Reporter, Precious Owolabi Protests by the Islamic Movement
in Nigeria (a.k.a) Shiites group also resonated and halted movement of people
and vehicles in the epicenter of the capital city, Abuja. Sometimes during the
protest, the air will be thick with tear gas as
soldiers and police officers made arrests. The Shi’ite group marched in protest
against the continued detention of its leader, despite a court ruling that he
be released. In one of those days, violent ensued and people were killed,
including a senior policeman and Channels Television reporter, Precious Owolabi.
The Shiites group has said that “The only thing that will stop their
protest is for the government to free their leader Sheikh Ibrahim
Zakzaky,” said Abdullahi Musa.