It’s that time of the year again! Time to start making your gift-giving list, and checking it twice. Since there are sure to be some fashionable women you are shopping for this holiday season, here are a few gift ideas that won’t end up in the return or regifting pile. Happy shopping! 1). Tech + Smart Accessories One of the hottest gifts this holiday season are Apple’s AirPods Pro ($249). These wireless, noise-canceling headphones not only easily connect to your iPod or Apple Watch, but they come with three different silicone ear tips for the perfect fit and a wireless charging case. Help her beauty routine with a vanity mirror with a Bluetooth speaker. She can do her makeup while listening to music or chatting on the phone. Perfect for a multi-tasker. And, with so many electronics today — phones, e-readers, computers, smart watches and more — a charging hub would help keep your wish list recipient organized. This is a great way to ensure her vanity stays neat and organized. Phones are everywhere. Allow her to stand out from the crowd with a personalized phone case. Customize it with her monogram, name, or even a fun photo she loves. This is the perfect intersection of sentimentality, uniqueness, and utility. Plus, since winter is cold and flu season, gift her a smartphone UV sanitizer. It cleans your phone with a UV light within 5 minutes. 2). Choose Something Stylish and Useful Most women have a favorite pair of earrings or a go-to necklace that they wear daily. Gift them a chic jewelry tray to display these pieces. There are plenty of styles to choose from too — metal, geometric, colorful patterns, and mirrored. The holiday season can be stressful. A beauty roller helps to reduce wrinkles and puffiness and add a touch of luxury to her nighttime beauty routine. They are made of jade, rose quartz or amethyst (or a set of all three). She may also be thinking of taking a little trip to someplace warmer, so why not help her with gifting a hard side spinner luggage. They can come in a variety of sizes, but a 20-inch carry-on would work. If she’s looking to travel or stay cozy at home this season, books are a smart gift to give the book lover on your list. And if you don’t know what genre she likes, pick up a bookstore gift card so she can find her next snow day novel. Want to give the gift that keeps on giving? there are subscription boxes that are geared toward particular interests. Search for books, fashion, lifestyle, home, and even wine boxes that feature curated products. You can usually sign up to send one box, or boxes quarterly. 3). Enhance Her Style Nothing says winter more than a faire isle sweater. She’ll cozy up on the couch in this soft and warm wardrobe staple. Size up and she can layer it with a comfy tee for those really cold days. Wrap her up in warmth with a gift set containing gloves, a hat, and a scarf. She can mix and match them with items already in her closet or wear them all together for a cohesive look. Complete her winter style with a chic pair of waterproof winter boots. These can come in a variety of colors and sizes, and are a perfect addition to winter outfits. They work to keep your feet warm and insulated while looking stylish. There are so many gift ideas that the women in your life with love. If all else fails, just ask her what she wants. She’ll tell you! Source