By Nicholas ObisikeEnugu – Norbert Okolie, the Media Officer of Rangers International FC of Enugu, says the club will fight for the three points against Nouadhibou FC of Mauritania on Sunday. Rangers will on Sunday trade tackle with hosting Nouadhibou FC of Mauritania in the third match of the group A of the ongoing Confederation of African Football (CAF) Consideration. Speaking to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu on Friday, Okolie assured that the club is well prepared for the encounter. ”We are not taking any team for granted because our position in the continental competition is not encouraging. ”Though, Nouadhibou FC is behind us on goal difference with no point likewise us. for this, we need the three points to give ourselves hope in the group,” he said. He noted that the players were ready to receive whatever the host was going to throw at them to ensure victory at last. ”I have chats with the players after each training these few days and they have told me how important the match is to the team,” he said. Okolie called on the players to play for one another and search for an early goal to throw the host in disarray. ”We are not going to Mauritania to look at the city but for a serious business. ”Our technical crew and the players has perfected plans for the match so all we need is luck and prayer,” the spokesperson said. He called on the supporters to rally round the club at this trail period that thing will change for good. Okolie expressed the belief that the club was undergoing transformation and would become better as soon as possible. On injuries to players, Okolie said that the club had only two players ruled out by injury. ”We have Pape Sane and Ifeanyj George ruled out for the match became of injury. ”Other players are ready and fit for the match and I look forward for a better outing in Mauritania,” Okolie said. NAN also reports that Rangers occupied third place in the group ahead of Nuoadhibuo FC with a goal difference, but no point each after two matches. The two Egyptian clubs, Al-Masry FC and Pyramid FC lead the group with six points each. (NAN)