Thirty two years after Margaret Thatcher led the UK conservative party to their biggest electoral victory in 1987, Boris Johnson has equalled the record if not surpassed it in the Thursday’s snap election dubbed ‘Brexmas’. On the other hand, the Labour — opposition party — led by Jeremy Corbyn, lost 59 seats and now have 203, making it the worst loss for the party in 84 years and since 1935. The huge win has paved the way for Johnson and his party to push through Brexit in less than two months. With 649 out of 650 seats declared, the Conservatives secured 364 seats—a gain of 47. Johnson strengthened his parliamentary majority after weeks of governing without one at all. The party’s campaign message of “Get Brexit Done” evidently helped the Conservatives to sweep up major Labour party’s strongholds. During his victory speech, Johnson acknowledged Labour voters who left the party: “You may intend to return to Labour next time round, and if that is the case, I am humbled that you have put your trust in me, and I will never take your support for granted.” Though Johnson had come under fire for his questionable campaign tactics, the sizeable parliamentary majority means he will be able to make good on his promise to secure a Brexit deal by the January 31 deadline. Also, the election witnessed a landmark victory for women in the UK as a record 221 women won seats as members of the Parliament. As the UK celebrates the rise of women in its politics, recall Finland has also elected its third female Prime Minister, Ms. Sanna Marin. 34-year-old Marin, who was sworn into office on Monday December 10, is the youngest prime minister in Finland’s history, and the youngest sitting head of government in the world. Before her, the New Zealand’s Jacinda Ardern, who was 37 years old when she took office in October 2017 used to be youngest head of state in the world. Marin, who belongs to the Social Democratic Party of Finland, will form a coalition government with four other parties, which are also led by women, three of whom are younger than 35 meaning her cabinet will be dominated by young women. Katri Kulmuni, 32, head of the Centre Party, will take on the role of Finance Minister, while Maria Ohisalo, 34, of the Green League, will serve as Finland’s Interior Minister. Rounding up the female-dominated cabinet will be Left Alliance chairwoman Li Andersson, 32, as the Education Minister, and Swedish People’s Party leader Anna-Maja Henriksson, 55, who will be serving as the country’s Justice Minister. Source