By Habibu Harisu Sokoto – A Non-Governmental Organization (NGO), 21st Century Entrepreneurs Hub, plans to train 5,000 youths in seven northern states on modern enterpreneurship skills as part of effort to promote self-reliance and productivity. Its Chairman, Mr Umar Idris, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday in Sokoto. Idris said the organisation had already trained 500 youths in Sokoto state, adding that other states to benefit from the training in 2020 are Katsina, Kano, Kebbi, Niger, Nassarawa and Zamfara states. According to him, coordinators have been appointed in each of the states. Idris noted that there were youths in northern Nigeria with potential in agro-allied businesses and solid mineral resources. The chairman added that the platform showcases products and services produced by young entrepreneurs in Sokoto as well as cultivation of a networking environment among entrepreneurs. “It creates inter-trade among young entrepreneurs, learning and sharing innovative methods of exploiting the vast natural resources and means that benefits the population. “`It shares resources, raising awareness and providing skills training to potential entrepreneurs around the world to foster entrepreneurship. “It also inspires communities to collaborate, and share their networks and markets to help their rising start-ups to thrive. “It also enhances networking and facilitating ecosystems connect amongst all stakeholders providing viable platform for continued discussion and deliberations for promotion of entrepreneurship in Sokoto,’’ Idris said. He said the initiative was targeted at inculcating financial discipline and focus on business in tapping available resources. He added that the training would promote women and youth entrepreneurs by connecting them with opportunities, resources and building their capacities to leverage digital skills to develop and manage their enterprises. He said the training was part of Global Entrepreneurship Congress (GEC), an annual event that brings together thousands of entrepreneurs, investors, researchers, policymakers and other startup champions. According to him, the event is conducted in about 170 countries to identify new ways of helping founders start and scale new ventures around the world. He further explained that under the annual global initiative, at least 10 million people would participate in 39,000 simultaneous events over a week. Idris said that during the event, participants shared common objective of fuelling start-up and scaling of ecosystems which create more jobs, accelerate innovation, strengthen economic growth and create avenues for entrepreneurship education. “The programme promotes large scale start-up competitions and workshops to small, community discussions and reaches new audiences, as well as connect participants to a network that can help them take the next step, no matter where they are on their entrepreneurial journey,’’ he said. According to him, work start-up champions are going around the world to minimise barriers and obstacles for entrepreneurs by maximising inclusion, while celebrating diversity in all forms, including women and youth in entrepreneurship. He said governments and policymakers were gingered through awareness in making policy to help local entrepreneurs start and scale, increase knowledge and capabilities of existing MSMEs and aspiring entrepreneurs. “The participants were avail with opportunities to explore different investment options under one roof by bringing seasoned entrepreneurs, bankers, agribusiness firms, Bank of Industry and other relevant agencies” he added.