A 77-year-old American returnee, Mutiu Agbosasa, has been murdered at his residence at the Ijede area of Ikorodu, Lagos State. Witnesses said the victim was killed by four gunmen. The armed men were said to have killed Agbosasa inside his apartment, dragged his body out, bundled it into his car and set the car on fire. Agbosasa had spent 45 years in the United States where he acquired his wealth before returning to Nigeria. Agbosasa returned a year ago and moved into his house at Ijede, where he was murdered. The incident, which occurred about 10.30p.m., on Saturday at Ginti Estate, was said to have thrown the community into shock. The police explained that on the fateful day of his murder, Agbosasa was returning from a function, when he discovered that four men were tailing him. The men followed him into his apartment. A few minutes later, his security guard, Adamu Dana, heard him call for help. The deceased was said to have ordered his guard to call policemen to come to his rescue. Dana dashed out to get the police but didn’t return until about 2.30a.m. He got home to meet his master dead. While explaining why he took long to return home after his master sent him to go and get police, Dana said that he didn’t see policemen at a particular junction in the community. He said that he was forced to go farther to get policemen. Some policemen followed him, but by the time they got to the house, Agbosasa had been killed and burnt. It was learnt that there is no nearby police station in the community. Preliminary investigation showed that the killers didn’t take anything away from the victim’s house after the operation. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bala Elkana, said Dana got to Ijede Police Station about 2.30a.m. “He told the policemen on duty that his master asked him to call the police. When policemen finally got to the scene, the man had already been killed and burnt in his vehicle. The scene was immediately cordoned off. Homicide detectives from the State Criminal Investigations and Intelligence Department (SCIID) and Forensic experts had visited the scene. “However, the command cannot say the motive behind the killing but, effort is on to trace the killers of the victim,” Elkana said. (New Telegraph)