ABEOKUTA –  Operatives of the Inspector-General of Police Special Intelligence Response Team (IRT) have arrested a herbalist, who allegedly killed his lover and sold her body parts to different herbalists, Muslim clerics and pastors for ritual at the rate of N1000 per part. IRT Operatives, led by a Deputy Commissioner of Police, Mr. Abba Kyari, have arrested 13 herbalists so far involved the butchering and selling of the victim’s body parts, while many others are still at large. Our reporter learnt that the tracking and eventual arrest of the suspects in different parts of Ogun State would not have been possible, if not for the active participation of the Ogun State Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson and his men in the investigation, which stretched into weeks. The prime suspect, Segun Olaniyi, claimed that the victim, Abosede Iyanda, was his lover. He also admitted orchestrating her murder for money making ritual. Operatives launched investigation into the case on November 15 following a letter of complaint from Abosede’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. Segun Adeyemi, residing at Plot ‘2’, Adio Idris Close, Oke Oko, in Ifo Local Government Area. The complaint was lodged at the IRT office, Ogun State Annex. According to the distraught parents, Abosede, married and mother of a child left her husband’s house in the morning of that fateful day to visit Olaniyi popularly known as “Agba Isegun,”a native doctor at Ifo area. Since then, Abosede appeared to have disappeared into thin air. Attempts to call her phone were abortive as it remained permanently switched off. After the operatives launched investigation into the disappearance of the woman, they started tracking her phone and that of Olaniyi. Olaniyi was tracked and arrested in Abeokuta area of Ogun State. During interrogation, he claimed that he and Abosede were lovers, that she came to visit him on November 15, but that on arrival at his place, he and his friends, Fagbon and AY, who were desperately in need of money, abducted and took her to a secluded area, where they butchered her and sold her body parts to interested buyers within Ogun and Lagos states. It was gathered that following Olaniyi’s confessions, the operatives moved to Abeokuta and different villages like Ifo, Itori Papalanto and Adigbe area where 11 suspects  were arrested. Among those arrested, eight confessed to kidnapping and killing and buying of the body parts of the victim. The number of those arrested soon swelled to 13. A source said: “Abosede and the prime suspect were secondary school lovers. They later parted ways and married other spouses. We understand that Abosede had been having series of problems with her husband, who is a commercial motorcycle rider. “Somehow, she reconnected with Olaniyi, who is now an herbalist. This reconnection with Olaniyi came after 15 years apart. Olaniy, the herbalist was perceived as being rich. He used to give the deceased N2,000 every day. She soon started going to visit him and soon, both of them started sleeping together. She would tell her husband that she was going to work, she would go to the suspect’s place. “She had earlier told the suspect to help her to become wealthy. So on that fateful day she came, Olaniyi told her to go to the stream with his two friends to strip and bathe her hair. She went with them; they held her down inside the stream and stabbed her to death. They then brought her out and deboned her before selling her flesh for N1,000. One of the herbalists arrested told us that Olaniyi uses charm placed on his tongue to speak to the victim, which made her to obey and do whatever he asked her to do.” Those arrested in connection with the killing and buying of Abosede’s body parts are; Segun Olaniyi (42), Ayodemeji Adileye (25) aka AY, also known as the  human being butcher, Babalola Akanbi (48), Adeifa Sogbeyinde (37), Rasaq Arabs (27), Sunday Akinyemi (41), Adewole Olwafemi (38) aka Pastor, Mustapha Ajibola (31) aka Alfa, Mustapha Iliya (30), Shilola  Amodu (38) aka Alfa, Jamiu Abass (25) , Smooth  Kazeem (37)  aka Alfa and Adesola  Oduyemi (56). The IRT Operatives recovered substances confessed by the suspects to be burnt human parts of Abosede. Some of the substances were in powdery and liquid forms. (New Telegraph)