It is believed that most Nigerian entertainers have grass to grace success stories but the reverse is the case for these kids of the rich who stepped into stardom with silver spoons in their mouth. VANESSA OKWARA puts together a list of successful entertainers whose parents, though wealthy and influential, have chosen entertainment and showbiz as their career paths DJ Cuppy Heiress to a billion dollar fortune as the daughter of Femi Otedola, a billionaire energy tycoon, Florence Otedola popularly called DJ Cuppy has refused to enjoy her father’s wealth in the shadows. Instead, she works hard as a DJ to rake in success, accomplishments and all the fame that goes with it just like her father. It is worthy of note that her younger sister, Temi Otedola is also a popular fashion blogger. Ozonna SoludoHe is the first son of ex-CBN Governor Charles Soludo. He began writing songs at the age of 12 before he went on to the London Institute of Contemporary Music Performance and began his career in 2013 as a professional pop musician. His music is widely accepted overseas where he is has a large fan base. Sina RamboSina hails from the influential Adeleke family. His father, Senator Ademola Adeleke, was a governorship aspirant for Osun State. He relocated to Nigeria from the United States to pursue music with his brother and cousin, Davido. He is also part of Davido’s HKN record label. FalzHe is the son of Femi Falana, a highly influential legal practitioner and activist of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Folarin Falana alias ‘FalzTheBahdGuy’, who is also a lawyer and actor, began his music career as far back as 2009 when he was still in Law school. Today, he has become successful in his chosen career, winning both national and international awards. L.A.XBorn Damilola Afolabi, he is son to Billionaire business tycoon, Taiwo Afolabi. His father, who is a barrister, is the chairman of Sifax Group which boasts of numerous companies in diverse areas of the Nigerian economy. The pop singer got signed to Wizkid’s Starboy Label in 2013 and has been blazing the trail since then. LynxxThis handsome rapper originally named, Chukie Edozien is the last child and only son of his father, Chief John Edozien. Chief John was the former governor of old Bendel State and ex-deputy governor of Delta State. He is also the chairman of Jenkyns Consult Nigeria Limited and Mercedes Benz Automobile Services Limited. DJ ExclusiveRotimi Alakija aka DJ Exclusive was born in the United Kingdom to Nigerian parents. The handsome Disk Jockey has carved a successful niche for himself in the local and international music scene DJ Exclusive is usually mistaken for the son of wealthiest woman in Nigeria, Folorunsho Alakija. It is of no surprise that he is her nephew. Naeto CNaetochukwu Chikwe is the son of Ex-aviation minister and former Nigerian ambassador to Ireland, Dr. Mrs. Kema Chikwe and Chief Herbert Chikwe. His fondness for music grew very fast as his household was influenced by music and they also gave him the support he needed to excel in his career which includes various art, culled from music. DavidoDavid Adeleke is one of the sons of influential business man, Adedeji Adeleke and was born in Atlanta, Georgia. His mother, Veronica Adeleke was a University lecturer before she passed on. Davido was pursuing a career in music as a student in the United States and was a member of Kb International, a record label before he moved back to Nigeria where he made hit music that brought him into limelight. TillamanHandsome Prince, Adetona Adetona is the son of Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi 3rd, a prominent traditional ruler of the Yoruba state, Oyo. The pop singer who has been working hard in the music industry was rewarded as he was appointed Youth ambassador by the former Oyo State governor, Abiola Ajimobi in 2013. Ademola AdedoyinRising movie star, Ademola Adedoyin, is known for his roles in blockbusters, October 1 and King of Boys. However, not many are aware that he is the son of famous industrialist, Samuel Adedoyin, who is the CEO of Doyin Group of Companies. Source