By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Human rights
lawyer and Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Chief Michael Ozekhome, has reacted to the
invasion of a Federal High Court in Abuja Friday to re-arrest Omoyele Sowore,
saying that the modus of the Director of State Services (DSS) casts a shadow on
the integrity of a government elected on constitutional democracy. Ozekhome therefore lamented that Nigeria
is fast stepping back into ruthless anarchy that needs to be checked now. He said this in reaction to
the invasion of a Federal High Court in Abuja Friday to re-arrest Omoyele
Sowore who was released through a compelling court order in less than 12 hours
earlier. Sowore’s release was after
many flouted court orders on the Department of State Security (DSS), Nigeria
secret police to let him free. Sowore was detained for 125
for allegedly planning to topple the government in his call dubbed
#RevolutionNow through which he called for protests against the government and
that the people should demand for better leadership. He argued that the foundation
of democracy is freedom of the people and respect for the rule of law. The lawyer wondered if the
DSS knew its action tarnished the nation before the world as the video clip of
the invasion of the court in session has gone round the world millions of
times. He questioned the civility in
the brazen desecration of the court by DSS even when not acting on any court
order for Sowore’s arrest. He
said: “Today, 6th November, 2019, the DSS,the nation’s secret Service in the
mould of FBI or CIA, danced naked in the streets,when it invaded a court of Law
in an attempt to arrest Omoyele Sowore,accused of trreasonable felony over his
“Revolution Now” mantra. Recall that the DSS had finally bowed to a 24 hour
ultimatum issued by Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu,to release Sowore and pay him
N100,000 damages.It was a show of extreme shame, disgust and degeneracy to see
a whole secrete security apparachick descend to the abysmal gutters of
physically invading the hallowed chambers of a court of Law to forcefully
arrest a suspect,viet armis,by resort to crude and unorthodox Hitlerite Gestapo
tactics in a supposed constitutional democracy.The video that went viral about
this ugly and ill-advised outing that has further reduced our worth in the
perception of the international community is condemnable in every sense of the word.It
downgrades us, belittles us, and our humanity and make us laughable before
civilised nations.We beheld an unarmed, helpless and hapless Sowore being
dragged on the floor, helplessly, like a vanquished prisoner of war (PoW) just
taken as ransom. Justice Ojukwu had to be spirited off to her chambers by her
security. When a government that is supposed to respect and protect
institutions, citizens’ rights and rule of law,invades and desecrates the
SACRED precincts of a Court of law,then we are in trouble. When the same DSS
invaded Judges’ homes in October, 2016,terrorizing the hapless Judges and their
families, many uninformed Nigerians hailed the misadventure as a sign of
fighting corruption. I had vehemently disagreed then,citing section 36 of the
1999 Constitution and section 7 of the ACJA that inure in us our humanity and
human dignity and respect. I had warned then of a possible descent into anarchy
and chaos if the masked DSS goons were not immediately restrained and halted on
their tracks. Friday’s disgraceful and atrocious outing
by the DSS is the clearest exemplification of a rudderless state in search of a
redemptive deus ex machina.A government that is short on tolerance to
criticism, plurality of voices and opposition and which serially violates
citizens’ rights and disobeys court orders is a ready recipe for organised
disenchantment.Our constitutional democracy should be one modelled on the rule
of law and not on the rule of the thumb of a benevolent ruler,even if
dictatorial, tyrannical, absolutist and fascist.”