By Charles lwuoha  •Ebonyi Commissioner of Internal Security, Border Peace and Conflict Resolution, Stanley Okoro Emeghia ABAKALIKI – No fewer than 50 elderly women from Agubia community, in Ikwo Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, Monday protested half naked against the arrest of their sons, burning of houses and destruction of lives and property in the community. The women aged between 70 and 80, protested in front of Ebonyi State Government House. News Express reports that there was recently serious crisis in Agubia community which resulted in the killing of certain Chinedu Nwali and destruction of lives and property worth millions of Naira. The crisis was a result of leadership tussle between youths in Agubia community over who will take control of the Agubia Motor Park. Houses were burnt, and over five persons were seriously injured during the crisis and they are currently receiving treatment at the Federal Teaching Hospital Abakaliki (FTHA). The Agubia Motor Park is the central park where all the vehicles leaving and entering the community stops. Also, homes and vehicles belonging to some of the current leaders of the parks were vandalised and set ablaze by the opposing youths. News Express gathered that security agency swung into action by arresting some persons believed to have hand in the said communal crisis. Speaking to journalists yesterday, the leader of the protesters, Mrs Beatrice Nwali, said: “They came with security agency and arrested our sons who came for a wedding three days ago. “They arrested about nine of them and dumped them in police cell. They also arrested another son of ours who is a barrister in his house. They claimed that they are involved in Agubia motor park crisis. “They came again with SARS and arrested another people at night. They arrested our sons because they claimed that they are the owners of the community. “They have not settled the crisis in Agubia Motor Park and that’s why our sons who came for a wedding were arrested.” Another protester who also spoke, Mrs Mercy Nwali, said: “The problem is too much on us and that’s why we came to protest. We are running away as a result of war. We didn’t go to our houses because of the crisis. “We ran away and left all our properties and left our breast like this. We came so that the government will come to our rescue. We ask the governor to come to our rescue. Let our children return, so that we can settle the matter for them. “We are for peace and the nine persons arrested should be released,” she stressed. However, there was a mild drama during the protest as the protesters refused to enter into a bus provided by the State Government to take them home and money given to them was as well rejected. The women insisted that they preferred to trek back to their refuge home since their houses were completely burnt down. Responding, the Commissioner of Internal Security, Border Peace and Conflict Resolution, Mr Stanley Okoro Emeghia, asked the protesters to go home, assuring them of government readiness to ensure quick release of the said arrested persons. “We will make sure that the peace you are seeking for is realised. I assure you that before the end of work today, the governor will respond to this your need and crying,” he told the protesters. (News Express)