By Oluwaseun Fadugba Lagos – No fewer than 194 players from four African countries are taking part in the maiden edition of the ValueJet Para Table-Tennis Open which serve off on Thursday in Lagos. Players at the ongoing para table-tennis tournament The three-day competition is underway at the Molade Okoya-Thomas Indoor Sports Hall, Teslim Balogun Stadium, Lagos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the ValueJet Airline sponsored competition have participating players from Nigeria, South Africa, Morrocco and Algeria. The fifth country, Egypt, could not make it to Nigeria for the championship. John Peters, tournament referee of the three-day event, said that the players, comprising 105 males and 89 females, were classified in standing and sitting classes. “Turn out for the this event has been impressive because principally we never had this kind of event in Nigeria before. “This is something we have long expected, judging by the fact that para players have not had this kind of opportunity before. “This tournament will serve as a preparatory competition for all the players that would be participating at the national sports festival coming up early next year in Edo State,” he said. Peter said that the competition would give Nigerian para players the opportunity to play against their international counterparts. “Playing against some internationals won’t be strange to some of our local players anymore after taking part in the championship, which is a major tournament in the world,” he said The tournament referee applaud the sponsors for the initiative. “This commendable initiative will further develop the growth of para table in the country. “I wish to congratulate all the players for showing a lot of self discipline since the tournament serve off. “ We have not received any major misbehaviour from any of the players, they have shown a lot of love and respect for each other . “When they lose they hug and shake hands,”  he said. Peter said that the championship would also serve as a qualifying tournament for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics for some of the Nigerian players. The winners of the female category in single class one, two, three four, and five will go home with, $500, second prize $300, while third will go home with $150 each. In the winners of the class seven and eight, nine and ten will go home with $500, $300 and $150 dollars for first prize, second and third, respectively. In the men class one category, winners will go home with $500, $300 and $150 dollars. Winners in the class two, three , four, five, seven, eight nine and ten will be rewarded with $500, $300 and $150 receptively for  first, second and third positions. (NAN)