By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Action Alliance (AA) governorship candidate in the last election in Imo State, Chief Uche Nwosu has said that he will support anybody who wins the governorship election petition at the Supreme Court. Nwosu dropped the hint in his New year message in Abuja, also paid tribute to the former governor of Imo State, Senator Rochas Okorocha and President Muhammadu Buhari. According to him, his supporters in Imo would abide in the final Supreme Court ruling. He commented on the last Supreme Court ruling which was against him, as he said it was a pre-election case. The AA governorship said he was grateful to the former governor of Imo State, Senator Rochas Okorocha and his family for picking from nowhere and given him opportunity to serve and prove to the Imo people that he can serve. According to him, to have served at the age he did was an honour to him and the youths of Imo State. Nwosu also thanked President Buhari for his fatherly role in the crisis of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the last Governorship election in Imo State. According to him, nothing can define a Democrat better than a person that gives everybody opportunity for expression. Asked to speak on the Imo State Governorship petition in Supreme Court, he said, “anybody who wins the governorship case in Supreme Court, l will support him. If Emeka Ihedioha should win the candidate of APC, Senator Hope Uzodinma or candidate of APGA, Senator Ifeanyi Ararume, l will support him. I will have no choice than to support him.” On the former governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, he said, “My sincere appreciation to Senator Owelle Rochas Okorocha who gave me opportunity to be what l am politically today. “Owelle Rochas Okorocha and his family picked me from nowhere and made me Commissioner and Chief of Staff; my appreciation also to Imolites who gave me opportunity to serve within the age of 30 years. “I want to thank all Imolites, especially the youths of Imo State and also to thank President Muhammadu Buhari, who was neutral throughout the political imbrioglo in Imo State. He is a father, he is Democrat and he has remained my role model. On his New year message, Nwosu said that Nigerians should have hope in the present administration as he believes that 2020 would be better than the outgoing year. Nwosu said President Buhari would deliver on his promises and implement the 2020 budget to the good of Nigerians. Recall that Uche Nwosu left APC to join Action Alliance after he failed to secure the governorship ticket of the Party.