By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – In what came to many as a huge surprise, one time Governor of Gombe State who is currently representing Gombe Central as a Senator, Muhammad Danjuma Goje has announced his retirement from elective politics in order to give way to others particularly the upcoming politicians in the state.  While dropping the bombshell in Gombe, during a parley with APC members and other politicians supporting him at the Pantami stadium on Sunday, he however stressed emphatically that he is not leaving politics entirely but intentionally leaving the elective stage for the younger ones saying however that, “by the grace of God if alive, I will be actively involved in the campaigns in 2023.” According to him, there are some politicians who feel he has been blocking them from achieving their dream saying, “It is time for me to leave the stage for the younger ones to occupy the stage in elective politics. From now hence, the floor is opened for anyone to contest even the Senate seat I am currently occupying in 2023”. He stated that as a political mentor for many in the State, he will continue to remain supportive of the State Governor, Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya and the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) in the State.He also pledged his continued loyalty and support to President Muhammedu Buhari, President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawal and the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. While promising to continue to pursue the entrenchment of good governance at all levels, Senator Goje said he action was not intended to annoy any of his supporters or the people of the State whom he thanked for giving him the opportunity to serve them in different capacities at the Local Government, State and national levels. He thereafter gave a parting gift of over N19 million to all party executives from the ward level to the State level including hundreds of cars, tricycles and motorcycles. In his remarks at the occasion, Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya, who paid glowing tribute to Senator Goje, vowed to remain loyal and support to all legacies he is leaving behind while serving the nation. Meanwhile, in appreciation of his tremendous contribution to the establishment and development of Federal University, Kashere in Gombe state, second executive Governor of Gombe State, Muhammadu Danjuma Goje was on Saturday conferred with the honorary Doctor of Science degree by the University during its 3rd, 4th and 5th combined convocation ceremony.While extolling the virtues of the awardee, Vice Chancellor of the University, Prof Alhassan Mohammed Gani disclosed that Muhammad Danjuma Goje is now the Senator representing Gombe Central provided some road network within the campus to ease movement. The VC added that the Senator funded the construction of the building that is accommodating the School of Remedial studies as well as some other developmental projects aside from the moral support he has continued to render to the University for effective and conductive learning environment. Alhassan Gani added that Danjuma Goje has remained a great pillar of support to the University since it commenced academic activities 8 years ago calling on other prominent indegenes of the area to look around and identify any area to support the university in its quest to excel and become one of the leading institutions in the country. In his speech, Gombe state Governor, Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya commended the efforts of Sen Muhammad Danjuma Goje singling out the former Governor for special commendation been one of those who championed the establishment of the University and has continued to stand by it. The Governor while further congratulating Danjuma Goje for the honor done to him which he said will spur him to do more for the growth of the University commended the decision of the Governing Council, Management and staff of the university in recognizing the contributions of people to the development of the university. Also, both the Pro Chancellor and Chairman of the Council of the University, Abdulmuhiyyl Mukhtar and the Chancellor, Och’Idoma, Dr. Agabaidu Elias Ikoyi Obekpa,CON, all commended the contributions of Danjuma Goje to the development of the University calling on him to continue to do more for the institution just as they called on others to emulate such. Culled from Tribune.