By Abiodun Lawal Abeokuta – The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) on Saturday appealed to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to further extend the Feb. 11 deadline for collection of Permanent Voter Cards (PVC). Mr Azeez Adeyemi, the National Public Relations Officer of the
association, made the appeal in a statement made available to newsmen in
Abeokuta. He said that the extension became necessary considering the fact that
most of the students who would be returning to school registered for
their PVCs within the school environments. “NANS sees this call as imperative due to the just-suspended strike of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). “Most Nigerian university students will be returning to the school
environs where they registered for their PVCs to pick them up. “We recall that INEC had revealed in its statistics of the eligible
voters, ahead of the 2019 general elections, that over 22 million voters
are Nigerian students. “As such, this cumulates to an approximate of 35 per cent of the eligible voters. “It is obvious that the duty towards promoting and protecting the
country’s democracy lies in the hands of Nigerian students,’’ he stated. Recall that the ASUU had on Thursday suspended its three-month old
strike, called to demand for revitalisation of universities, academic
earned allowances, issuance of Universities Pension Management Company
and other issues. Adeyemi called on Nigerian students to, as a matter of national
interest, return to their school environment where they registered, to
collect their PVCs. He said that it would avail them the opportunity to partake in the coming general elections. The NANS spokesperson noted that the National President of
NANS, Bamidele Akpan, had directed that all students must play active
roles in ensuring successful general elections. INEC had initially fixed Friday Feb. 8 as deadline for collection of
PVCs but shifted it to Monday, Feb. 11, to allow more people to have
theirs ahead of the elections which begin on Saturday.