By Ibukun Emiola Ibadan – Students of University of Ibadan (UI) on Monday resumed academic activities after staying three months at home following suspension of national strike by Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). A News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) correspondent who visited UI on Monday
reports that a large number of students who had resumed were sighted at
their faculties and in lecture rooms. Some lecturers were also seen taking classes while UI authorities had
released a review of the academic calendar for the rest of the
2017/2018 session. Some of the students, who spoke with NAN, expressed delight at the
suspension of the ASUU strike and resumption of academic work. Damilola Popoola, a 100 level student of the Department of Adult
Education and Ndeheyne Amen of the Department of Theatre Arts, said some
lecturers came to class to teach but some students were yet to return
to school. “We have started lectures already; most of my colleagues are yet to be back while some are on their way to school. “I am glad to be back in school because I was bored staying at home,
though I used the period of the strike to learn a vocational skill and
also to read my books,” Popoola said. Amen said that the shifted Presidential and National Assembly
elections could be responsible for some students not returning back to
school immediately
“Some students are a bit worried about the effect of the postponed
elections on the revised academic calendar as some days would be
declared as holiday for the exercise to hold, “ she said. Meanwhile, Mr Olatunji Oladejo, Director of Communication, UI, confirmed that academic activities had resumed in the school. He said that the school, through Prof. Adeyinka Aderinto, Deputy
Vice-Chancellor (Academic) had released a statement to that effect and
academic work had resumed in earnest. “The VC, on behalf of Senate, has approved the attached adjustment in
the Academic Calendar for the rest of the 2017/2018 session.
“Only dates have been adjusted in the calendar. You would recall that we
had 23 days to the commencement of GES examinations and examinations in
some Faculties when the strike started,” he said
The revised academic calendar indicate that three weeks are left for
teaching and revision spanning a period from Feb. 18 to March 8 while
the GES exams would take place from March 11 to March 15.
Examinations in the faculties are expected to start on March 11 through
to April 5 after which students will proceed home for Easter from April
19 to April 22.
The revised academic calendar also indicated that a new session
2018/2019 would commence on June 1 for both undergraduate and
postgraduate students. (NAN)