By Emmanuel Antswen Makurdi, – The ultra modern Aper Aku stadium, Makurdi, was on Wednesday filled to capacity as hundreds of thousands of supporters of the All Progressives Congress (APC) besieged the stadium to cheer President Muhammadu Buhari and his entourage during the campaign rally. The News Agency of the Nigeria (NAN) reports that the stadium, named
after the first civilian governor of the state, is the biggest event
centre in the state. NAN also reports the stadium was filled to capacity as early as 9 a.m on Wednesday. Traffic officials and police personnel were seen making frantic
efforts to redirect traffic flow to ease congestion around the stadium
area. Commuters were stopped at the Police headquarters situated close to
the stadium and redirected to alternative routes to allow free flow of
traffic. Commercial vehicle operators conveying people to the venue were seen
conveying supporters in the boots of their cars while motorcycle
operators carried up to three people on one bike. Speaking to the NAN on the sidelines of the event, a don and
convener, Benue Alliance for Good Governance (BAGG) Dr Aondokaa Asambe,
commended the president for working hard to regain the country’s lost
glory. He, therefore, called on Benue electorate to vote for the president and all APC candidates at the polls. Asambe said that the resilience shown by the president since
assumption of office in 2015 was unequalled by any Nigerian leader and
urged the Benue people to massively vote for him for on Feb. 16. “Today we are in joyous mood that things are fast changing and
positively too. The ordinary Nigerians in the remote villages can also
attest to your leadership qualities having felt the positive impact of
governance and government; having impacted their lives through the
various social investment programmes. “BAGG salutes the resilience and sagacity with which you are fighting
corruption since you assumed the mantle of leadership of this country
in 2015. ” We equally salute your people’s oriented leadership, which is fast
manifesting in your infrastructure development in all nooks and crannies
of this country”. Also speaking an ex Speaker, Benue State House of Assembly, Mr
Stephen Tsav, said the crowd recorded at the stadium showed that the
Benue people were satisfied with the policies of President Buhari. Tsav said that Benue people would show their appreciation to the
president on Feb.16 and appealed to him to redouble his efforts at
repositioning the socio-economic fortunes of Nigeria.