By Kingsley Okoye Torankawa (Sokoto) – The Federal Government on Monday commissioned a N146 million national grid connected 60 KiloWatt (KW) solar mini-grid electricity plant to supply power  to 350 households  in Torankawa community in Sokoto State. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the project was
initiated by the Department of Renewable and Rural Access (RRD), Federal
Ministry of Power, Works and Housing, under the Renewable Energy Micro
Utility Programme. The project, commissioned by the Minister of Women Affairs and Social
Development, Hajia Aisha Abubakar  was funded with proceeds from the
Nigerian Sovereign Green Bond (SGB) issued by the Federal Government  in
2017 . The project which is  Public Private Partnership (PPP) driven, was
developed by Messers News Engineering Nigeria Ltd and Protogy Global
Services Ltd, indigenous companies operating  in the country. The acting Director, RRD in the ministry, Alhaji Faruk Yusuf said the
project would provide electricity to 350 households and 20 Small and
Medium Enterprises (SMEs). According to him, the plant will supply power to ultimately 1,750 people in the community. Yusuf said the project would also power 50 100watt LED street lights, Mosques, and the community’s irrigation farm among others. He said the project could operate both in grid connected model or non grid connected environment like an island. The acting director said the grid connected  hybrid solar voltaic
mini grid, completed within three months had 99 per cent assurances of
supplying 24 hours, seven days  high voltage  electricity to the
community all year round. According to him, the  plant comprises 125KVADC/ AC Inverter, 60KW
 Solar Photophotics (PV) Modules , 216 kilowatt hours ( kWh) battery
bank , and 100KVA diesel generator as redundant back up. Yusuf said the project also included rehabilitation of four
kilometers Town Distribution Network (TDN) and installation of  100
smart meters and local electronic vending system. The minister in her remarks said the project was unique as it was the
first grid connected solar mini project implemented in Nigeria by the
Federal Ministry of Power,Works and Housing. She said the project was a demonstration of President Muhammadu
Buhari’s administration’s commitment to providing Nigerians with
incremental stable and reliable power supply. Abubakar said implementation of the project was also part of
Nigeria’s contribution toward promoting and archiving sustainable energy
for all. “This project is a demonstration of the viability of deploying
alternative energy in technology to  provide   rural communities 24/7
reliable power supply. “The electricity will improve the life of rural dwellers through improved health care, education and agricultural production.’’ She said Buhari in his efforts to rapidly provide access to
electricity had  developed policies and regulations to attract private
sector participation in the power industry. She said the polices were in financing, developing, operation and
maintenance of rural electrification projects using renewable sources. “The mini-grid approved by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory
Commission (NERC), provides opportunity for private investors and has
started yielding results, as 20 mini-grid projects have been
commissioned across the country in 2017 and 2018. Abubakar said the commissioned mini-grids power projects was
providing reliable power supply to more than 20,000 people in off-grid
project areas  of the country. “This project in Torankawa has been developed to demonstrate economic
viability and sustainability and will be concessioned  to a private
operator that will be responsible for operation and maintenance. “It is necessary therefore, that the electricity users pay for the
use of the electricity to ensure that the project keeps delivering power
over its life span.’’ The minister commended Torankawa people for their cooperation, not
only in providing the land for the project but for also committing to
purchasing the electricity generated  from  the project. She called on other communities to emulate the peaceful and dynamic attitude of the Torankawa community.