By Chinyere Joel-Nwokeoma Lagos – Determined to promote the savings culture in Nigeria, Diamond Bank Plc said it rewarded 15,000 customers with over N5.4 billion in the past 10 years through DiamondXtra promo. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that DiamondXtra draw promo
was instituted 10 years ago to promote savings culture and financial
inclusion. Karimot Tukur, the bank’s Head, Consumer Banking, said at the
DiamondXtra Season 11 launch in Lagos on Wednesday that the bank used
the promo to reward loyal customers. Tukur said the intiative was an avenue through which the bank
enhances the capacity of its customers to pay rent, school fees and
attain other financial and personal goals. She said the bank would reward 4,750 customers with about N400 million in DiamondXtra Season 11 promo. “One thing that I am really excited about is the senior citizens draw
which focuses on people aged above 50, I think having a draw dedicated
to only people above 50 is a great thing. “The second thing is the special draw for customers who have been
banking with us for the past five years; it’s also very exciting,” she
said. Mr Robert Giles, Head, Retail Banking, Diamond Bank said the season
11 would have bigger and better rewards for the customers of the bank. “To be a part of the reward system, all you need to do is to open a
DiamondXtra account and fund it with N5,000, with an increased chance of
winning from multiple increments in your savings plan of N5,000,” he
said. According to him, the reward scheme is open to new and existing customers with the DiamondXtra account. Mr Osita Ede, Head, Consumer Liability Products, Diamond Bank, noted
that Season 11 was a product of the bank’s engagement with its customers
on the past promos. “Season 11 is a product of our engagements with our customers, so far
we have run 10 seasons and the report we have gotten from customers is
that they want it to continue. “We also go back to engage customers to find out how the season went,
if there is something they want us to include in the next season. “That is how we came up with senior citizens reward which is coming
straight from the survey we had with customers because some people are
saying we have been on this and we are getting older, so what happens to
us. “So, we now have a special draw for 50 years and above individuals,” he added. (NAN)