By Wandoo Sombo Abuja, – The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Friday met with stakeholders in Abuja to evolve measures to further ensure the protection and promotion of the rights of every Nigerian for the next four years. The stakeholders met at a workshop to validate the Strategic Plan of
the commission for 2019 to 2022, aimed at injecting fresh ideas into its
operations. Mr Tony Ojukwu, the Executive Secretary of the Commission, said that
the four-year plan document was developed to chart a new and defined
course for the conduct of the affairs of the commission in line with
identified strategic priorities. “The current administration on assumption of leadership, assessed the
situation on ground with respect to the operations and effectiveness of
the commission and saw the need to inject fresh ideas and strategies
that will reposition the commission to realise its expanded mandate
enshrined in the NHRC Act 2010. “The act has given the commission enormous powers, and we cannot
exercise the powers without knowing how to do so. So a key priority for
us is to build the capacity of staff of the commission to be able to
deliver on the mandate specified in the act.” The executive secretary noted that the commission was not oblivious
to challenges that it might face, particularly that of funding. “We have tried to factor in these challenges as we carefully address
risk mitigation in the document. The commission also relies on the
support and collaboration of its partners in the implementation
process.” The Chairman of the occasion, Mr Chinonye Obiagwu (SAN), noted that
the plan was basically a way of having a framework to operationalise the
vision and mission of the commission particularly by ensuring that the
staff were made professional. “The vision and mission of the commission is to provide asses to
human rights to all Nigerians. So the plan is about what the commission
needs to do to achieve these goals by succinctly measuring each goal
with achievable targets.” Obiagwu, who was one of the consultants that assisted the commission
in preparing the plan, noted that the plan was flexible and would adjust
to circumstances as those implementing it saw fit. The News Agency of Nigeria, (NAN) reports that the strategic plan
2019 to 2022 was put together through a partnership between the
commission and the some consultants.