By Aisha Cole Lagos – The Apapa Area 1 Command of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) generated N404 billion in 2018, up from the N350.9 billion it generated during the same period in 2017. The Customs Area Controller of the command, Comptroller Bashir
Abubakar, made this known while briefing newsmen in Lagos on Thursday. According to him, the amount realised was 95 per cent of the 2018 revenue target of N426.1 billion. “This also shows that the command collected N53billion above the revenue generated in 2017,’’ the controller said. Abubakar attributed the success to the selfless stance of the
officers and men, as well as the support and back-up by the
Comptroller-General of Customs, Retired Col. Hameed Ali and his
management team. He said that the other strategies the command adopted which led to
the success included the instance seamless operation of the import and
export businesses by his administration. Abubakar also explained that the he introduced a 24-hour dispute
resolution team and on-spot examination by all units and agencies. “The strategies included advanced system and monitoring,
collaboration between internal and external units of the Nigeria Customs
Service (NCS) and other government agencies,’’ the controller said. He said that these strategies had helped to block most revenue leakages and enhanced trade facilitation and security. “Seventy two containers of various general goods such as used spare
parts, used tyres and other sundry goods valued at N9.626 billion in
2018 were intercepted. “In the year under review, the command also seized and condemned 41 x
40ft containers of controlled pharmaceutical drugs, including tramadol,
in excess of the allowable milligrammes with a Duty Paid Value (DPV) of
N8.81 billion. “Furthermore, the command also intercepted and seized an export-bound
used helicopter with registration number 5BN valued at N210.6 million,
in addition to another port-bound Aircraft `Cessna 182A’ in CKD with
serial no. 3400, valued at N486.9 million. “These items were seized in accordance with the provisions of the extant laws and guidelines. “All these items were seized owning to various infractions such as
false declaration, concealment and complete disregard of import and
export guidelines,’’ Abubakar said. He said that the command recorded a high level of compliance on
export declarations, while 2,500 containers were blocked for
non-compliance. Abubakar said that the command recorded 1, 206,649.67 tonnes of
exported goods in 2018 valued $239,467, 649.67million U.S. dollars,
equivalent of N73.157, 4451, 463.77 billion. The NCS chief said the increase in revenue was also due to the
implementation of the Nigeria Integrated Customs Information System II
(NICIS II) in Apapa, which had blocked revenue leakages in cargo
clearance procedures. He noted that the command’s achievement in 2018 earned the command
the World Customs Organisation (WCO) award of merit for rendering
exceptional service of the international customs community during the
World Customs Day held in Abuja in January 2019. He, however, urged stakeholders to continue to cooperate with the NCS
by adhering strictly to extant laws and guidelines on import and export
for the collective good of the nation. Abubakar commeded the media for exchange of information, openness, sincerity, and objectivity in information dissemination. He honoured some officers with Certificates of Commendation for their
dedication and transparency in their duties, including two Asst.
Comptrollers, Bello Ahmed and Faith Ojeifo. Others were: Chief Supt. Usman Iliyasu, Supt. Peter Odangla, CIU and Asst. Supt. Bah Zarma. In his closing remarks, the Deputy Comptroller in Charge of Revenue,
Muhammad Gaya, commended the efforts of the award recipients and urged
them to redouble their efforts to enable the command surpass its target
for 2019.