  Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Peoples Democratic Party has rejected the result of the presidential election so far released by the Independent National Electoral Commission, saying that our democracy is under threat. The party which informed that results being released don’t reflect the decisions of Nigerians as expressed at the polls, disclosed this on Monday in a statement signed by the national chairman, Uche Secondus sent to Sundiata Post. The statement reads in full: The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is forced to take a stand and make the following pronouncements at this crucial point because our democracy is under threat of derailment. Firstly, I want to categorically state that our collation centers have all original results from every polling unit, in every ward, in every Local Government Area (LGA) in Nigeria, of which the international community is well aware, implying all results currently being announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is incorrect thus unacceptable to our party and people. Secondly, officials of both President Buhari’s government and the All Progressive Congress (APC), working with INEC officers, have tried to alter the course of history and disenfranchise our people through the cancellation and manipulation of figures for results already announced at polling units, nationwide, in Local Government Areas (LGAs) where our party, the PDP, had commanding votes; this must now be resisted by every well meaning Nigerian. Thirdly, the ruling party’s strategy has indeed been murderous, undignified, and disrespectful of the wishes of the electorate, our people and the international community who have been in solidarity with our nation as we attempt to strengthen our democracy and its institutions. Fourthly, in full view of the watching world, and despite efforts by our great party and its agents to adhere to every laid down provision for the 2019 general elections, the APC in collusion with INEC have taken aggressive steps, mostly through inducements, manipulation and incarcerations, using the elements of state power including the Nigeria Police Force, the Nigerian Army in particular, alongside other organizations including the Department of State Security (DSS) and Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to silence the voices of our long suffering people; this is disheartening, considering the terms of the Peace Accord, which called for impartiality and non-partisanship by members of our security organization with constitutional roles to play during this civic exercise. Fifthly, as results trickled in on the Sunday, February 24th, 2019, clearly putting the PDP in the lead, the ruling party and President Buhari dispatched high-ranking officials to coercively influence outcomes in different geopolitical zones in the country. For example: I. The minister of the interior, was dispatched to the North West of the country
II. The Secretary of the Government of the Federation was dispatched to the North East of the country; while the
III. The Attorney General and Minister were dispatched to the South East and South-South regions. i. Sarkin Dawaki ward in Doma LGA – Nassarawa state
ii. Doka ward in Doma LGA – Nassarawa state
iii. Agyaragin – Tofa ward
iiii. 10, 000 illegal votes added to already announced results in Wurno LGA in Sokoto state
v. Additionally, violent and destructive attacks have been meted out to officials while counting at Lafia St. and police barracks polling units. In addition, to the international community; we welcome your support for our democracy and extend our gratitude with great hope for our democracy. Prince Uche Secondus
Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) By The Economist The power struggle that has led to a split in the ruling… By SundiataPOST, Abuja The Nasarawa State Executive of the PDP on Wednesday declared support for… OBO’, (Omo Baba Olowo), or better still, David Adeleke aka Davido, has come out to…