By Emmanuel Mogbede Abuja – The All Progressives Congress’ (APC) United Kingdom chapter of Buhari Support Organisation (BSO), has advised Nigerians to remain calm and not be discouraged by the postponement of the general elections. Leader of the group, Mr Joseph Adebola, made the call while reacting to the development in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Saturday. He urged Nigerians to be steadfast in their resolve to ensure that there was good governance in the country. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had a few hours to commence of Presidential and National Assembly elections on Saturday, announced the rescheduling of the exercises by one week. Chairman of the commission, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, who made the announcement, said that the decision was taken after a meeting with the commission’s Commissioners, and cited “logistics’’ problems as issues that prompted the postponement. According to him, the decision to postpone the elections earlier scheduled for today, Feb.16 and March 2, respectively, was taken after reviewing the level of the commission’s preparations for the elections. Yakubu said that the postponement of the elections would afford the commission the opportunity to address identified challenges in order to maintain the quality of the elections. He stressed that postponing the elections was a difficult decision for the commission but was necessary for successful delivery of the elections and the consolidation of the country’s democracy. Adebola, however, said that the decision to postpone the elections may on one hand portray INEC as independent, because it was solely its decision, but that on the other hand, it did not paint the commission in good light. This, he said, was especially so because the elections had been on the drawing board for years and that the Federal Government had given the commission all the resources it needed to conduct elections. He, therefore, wondered why the elections had to be postponement at the “11th hour’’. “Having dissected the whole issues, my advice is for Nigerians to remain steadfast and resolute in our determination to ensure that no underhand tactics are applied to the conduct of the elections. “We need free, fair, peaceful and credible elections. Every voter, therefore, needs to protect his vote and ensure it counts,” Adebola stressed. (NAN)