ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, presidential
candidate of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said
his presidential ambition is not worth the life of any Nigerian. He said this on Wednesday at the signing of a Peace Accord in Abuja. Atiku,
who acknowledge that the statement was first made by former President
Goodluck Jonathan, thanked his party, the PDP and former Head of State,
General Abdulsalami Abubakar, Chairman of the Peace Committee, for
making the peace accord process successful. His full address reads: May
I use this opportunity to renew my profound gratitude, firstly to my
party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and then to General
Abdulsalami Abubakar and members of the Peace Committee for their
tireless enthusiasm, dedication, and passion towards ensuring the
success of this Peace Accord Process! Our gathering here today
clearly demonstrates the importance of the upcoming elections as well as
how our democracy has matured, not only to our people, but also to the
international community whose solidarity, Nigeria’s democracy has
benefited from. As we prepare to sign off on this Peace Accord,
as representatives of our party and people, may I freely quote the words
of former President Goodluck Jonathan, which remains a benchmark, for
me, taking into account the deep feelings that prevail as February 16th,
2019, approaches. “My ambition is not worth the blood of any Nigerian.” In
this context, I appeal once again to every staff and the leadership of
the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Nigeria
Police Force, to be fair arbiters in the upcoming elections while
letting neutrality prevail. For emphasis and in the spirit of
fair play, I also urge our security agencies, not to embark on
indiscriminate arrests of members of the opposition, 24 to 48 hours
before elections, as has been the case in previous elections. Hopefully,
our democracy should emerge stronger from this process with the 2019
elections proving better managed than the 2015 process, which was
adjudged free and fair with the then opposition’s victory unobstructed Consequently,
I also appeal to the President, General Buhari, to use his good office
to ensure that every eligible person who casts their vote is confident
in the process and in the belief that their vote will count. Additionally,
every candidate must remember that this election is about the future of
Nigeria, therefore, we must abide by the will of the people as freely
expressed through elections, under the terms of our constitution. Once
again, despite concerns expressed by my party leaders concerning likely
electoral malpractices and the intimidation of voters and observers, I
trust that our election officials and security services will do their
duty in accordance with their oath and obligations. In
conclusion, I appeal once again, to our citizens, to go out and cast
their votes for the candidates of their choice, to be peaceful at all
times, and confident in our democracy, its institutions and processes. So, please go out this Saturday to vote for your future and the future of our great nation. May God bless you and God bless Nigeria