By Harrison Arubu Abuja – The Youngstars Development Initiative (YDI) has called for a secure environment for voters in the March 9 Governorship and State Houses of Assembly elections across the country. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)
reports that Area Council elections in the Federal Capital Territory
(FCT) will also hold on the same day. YDI, a Pan-African youth
non-governmental organisation, made the call in a statement by its
Executive Director, Mr Kingsley Bangwell, in Abuja on Wednesday. The organisation also added its
voice to the growing call for the arrest and prosecution of all
perpetrators of violence in the just-concluded elections. The Situation Room, a coalition of
70 civil rights organisations, said in a report that 16 persons died in
election-related violence during the Feb.23 polls. As at the time of filing this
report, the official death figures had not been released by the police,
but the force said they had arrested 128 offenders. The YDI call came amid a promise by
President Muhammadu Buhari that security agencies “will bring to justice
all those arrested in the process’’. In a statement on Wednesday morning
shortly after his declaration as winner of the presidential election,
Buhari said he was “very sad at the grievous loss of lives”. “Security agencies will step up their efforts to protect voters in the forthcoming state elections,’’ the president said. Describing election-related violence
as a threat to the nation’s democracy, YDI stated that the menace
should not be allowed to continue unchecked. “Election violence has many negative consequences on our electoral process and the nation at large. “Among other fall-outs, it claims
innocent lives, disrupts the electoral process, weakens democratic
culture, fosters voter apathy and impacts negatively on the economy. “ It is for these reasons and many
more that we cannot continue to allow the menace of electoral violence
to continue unchallenged. “We, therefore, call on all security
agencies to rise to be alive to their responsibility of providing a
safe environment for the electorate during the March 9 elections,’’ it
said. YDI reaffirmed its commitment to the
promotion of peaceful elections through the “Vote Not Fight: Election
No Be War’’ campaign, which it executes in partnership with the 2Baba
Foundation (NAN). By Deborah Coker Benin - The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo has commended security… By Reuters Tens of thousands of Mozambicans marched in the capital Maputo and two other… By Reuters Tens of thousands of Mozambicans marched in the capital Maputo and two other…