Abakaliki – The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has embarked on an intensive awareness campaign to tackle Lassa fever in Ebonyi communities. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the interactive forum
convened in Abakaliki, was attended by traditional rulers,
representatives of Local Government Areas (LGA) Chairmen, women and the
youth. Speaking during an interactive forum with stakeholders, Dr Robinson
Nnaji, Team Leader of the NCDC Rapid Response Team to Ebonyi said that
the centre was aimed at deriving responses on the disease at the
grassroots. “We seek to enlighten the people on the symptoms of lassa fever and
measures to take in identifying suspected cases and its overall
prevention. “We are satisfied with the responses achieved during the forum as
participants arrived at resolutions aimed at containing the disease,
having been enlightened on its symptoms,” he said. The team leader noted that emphasis was placed on intensive community
awareness; use of town criers to enlighten people about the disease,
environmental cleanliness, safe burials for victims and weekly meetings
on lassa fever. “The number of casualties from Ebonyi according to NCDC’s findings is
12 but the state commissioner for health is in the best position to
give the official death figure from the state. “The most important thing is that the NCDC has sent a rapid response
team to strengthen surveillance system in the state, in appreciation of
the state government’s efforts to contain the disease. “The construction of the South East Virology Centre by the state
government is a huge commitment as it serves the state, the South East
zone and other parts of the country,” he said. Dr Emeka Samson, the State Epidemiologist commended the NCDC’s
efforts, noting that its activities had assisted the people to be
abreast of ways to contain the disease in the state. “This interactive forum has actually enlightened stakeholders who
will educate the people at the grassroots of the disease and we will
build on its gains. “The NCDC surveillance team has seen the commitment of the state
government to contain lassa fever and decided to complement it to
achieve the desired goals. “They are, therefore, assisting us in the areas of sensitisation,
community surveillance, contact tracing and case management, among
others,” he said. He maintained that the state commissioner for health was the
authentic source from which the number of casualties and other related
information about the disease could be accessed. (NAN)