By Desmond Ejibas Port Harcourt – The Nigerian Army has reaffirmed its stance to remain neutral in the Feb. 16 and March 2 general elections in the country. Maj.-Gen. Jamil Sarham, General Officer Commanding (GOC) 6 Division,
Nigerian Army, Port Harcourt, gave the assurance at a news conference in
Port Harcourt on Wednesday. Represented by Col. Aminu Iliyasu, Spokesman of the Division, Sarham
said troops participating in the elections had undergone several
trainings on their expected roles in the general elections. “We also issued the troops with the code of conduct for armed forces
of Nigeria during elections as well as rules of engagement for Operation
Safe Conduct in 2019 general elections. “These (code of conduct) pamphlets are specifically produced and
distributed to each personnel as a guide to troops’ conduct during
elections. “We wish to reaffirm the neutrality of troops as well as direct them
to continue to remain apolitical as they conduct their assigned duties
professionally,” he said. Sarham said that severe sanctions awaits any soldier,  no matter how
highly placed, caught fraternising with political parties to influence
outcome of the elections. The GOC warned hoodlums and trouble makers against carrying out acts capable of truncating the peaceful conduct of the polls. “It has come to our notice that some miscreants are planning to use
military-like fatigue dress, and pretending to be our troops to
perpetrate carnage at polling centres. “This plan has failed as no soldier is allowed within the vicinity of
any polling area. Anyone seen in military uniform in a polling unit is
an impostor and should be treated as such. “Anyone with useful information about any security breach should please call 09027771482 immediately,” he said. Meanwhile, Sarham said that the division in partnership sister
security agencies and would on Thursday, Feb. 14, conduct a Confidence
Building Patrol within Port Harcourt metropolis. According to him, the exercise will be used to sensitize and reassure
the public of synergy among security agencies in the general elections. “Consequently, residents and commuters in Port Harcourt and environs
are hereby informed of troops’ movement along major routes in the city,”
he said.