2019
Election: Clinton, Baroness to Deliver Goodwill Message at Signing of the
National Peace Accord By
Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja
(Sundiata Post) – Former President of the United States of America, Bill
Clinton and the Secretary General of the Commonwealth, Baroness Patricia Scotland
would on 13 February deliver goodwill messages at the signing ceremony of the
“National Peace Accord”, which will hold at Abuja International Conference
Centre ahead of the general election. President
Clinton would also hold meetings with President Muhammadu Buhari and former
Vice-President of Nigeria, Atiku Abubakar and will counsel them to help Nigeria
navigate through what will hopefully be a peaceful and fair electoral cycle. The
National Peace Committee disclosed this on Sunday in a statement signed by Head
of Secretariat – National Peace Committee, Fr. Atta Barkindo sent to Sundiata
Post. The
statement reads in full: The National Peace Committee, mindful of the importance of
peaceful elections and non-violent transfer of power has engaged various
stakeholders in preparation for the 2019 General Elections. To this end, it is pleased to announce that it has invited Bill
Clinton, 42nd President of the United States of America and Baroness Patricia
Scotland, Secretary General of the Commonwealth, to visit Nigeria from 12 to 13
February 2019 ahead of the Nigerian presidential elections. Both President Clinton and Baroness Scotland will deliver
goodwill messages at the signing ceremony of the “National Peace Accord”, which
will hold at Abuja International Conference Centre on 13 February. President
Clinton would also hold meetings with President Muhammadu Buhari and former
Vice-President of Nigeria, Atiku Abubakar.  As we move into Nigeria’s
national elections, the threat of unrest has to be taken seriously. Both Guests of Honour enjoy enormous respect in Nigeria and
beyond and we look forward to his counsel and advice to help Nigeria navigate
through what will hopefully be a peaceful and fair electoral cycle. The National Peace Committee is grateful to the Kofi Annan
Foundation for supporting this process, and, after 2015, again supporting free
and fair elections in Nigeria. The NPC has engaged the Independent National Electoral
Commission (INEC), security services, 91 registered parties, the media and
civil society organisations. Considering some of the challenges faced, the
Committee organized the 1st signing of the National Peace Accord on 11th
December, 2018 to support peaceful campaigns and political rallies. Following from this, the Committee, led by former Nigerian Head
of State General Abdulsalami Abubakar, has organized the 2nd signing of the
National Peace Accord which would be held 10 am on Wednesday 13th February,
2019 at Abuja International Conference Centre. This signing is aimed towards committing stakeholders to
accepting the outcome of the vote, as long as it is announced by INEC, the body
empowered by law and is adjudged to be free, fair and credible. Fr. Atta Barkindo Head of Secretariat – National Peace Committee