By George Odok Calabar – The Nigerian Navy Reference Hospital in Calabar on Saturday offered free medical services to over 4,000 residents of Nasarawa community in Calabar as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility to the host community. Rear Adm. David Adeniran, the Flag Officer Commanding Eastern Naval
Command, said the gesture was aimed at enhancing the living standard of
the people. “This is a medical outreach where we bring medical awareness and
treatment to a community that is hosting the Navy Reference Hospital. “We chose this community because we want them to know that the Navy
hospital has been established to render medical service in case of any
medical requirement. “The hospital is open for all civilians who are in need of medical
attention because the facility has modern equipment with trained
personnel to handle any issue. “We are expecting over 4,000 members of this community to benefit
from this outreach. Any case that cannot be handled here, the person
will be referred to our facility for treatment accordingly,’’ he said. Adeniran explained that the medical outreach was also carried out to
identify prevailing medical condition in the area and subject it to
further analysis for possible collaboration with other medical research
institutes. Service rendered by the hospital include; Surgery, Orthopaedics,
Cardiology, Accident and Emergency, Ophthalmology, Endocrinology, Ear
Nose and Throat, Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Paediatrics, General
Laboratory Services. The Acting Commander of the Hospital, Surgeon Commander Uche Okeke,
who led the medical team, said that members of the community would
benefit from free eye check, hepatitis treatment, malaria, high blood
pressure test, drugs and others. Okeke, who is in charge of de-worming the children, told NAN that the
charges in the Reference Hospital were sunsidised by government and was
available for both the military an civilians. Speaking, Mr Sani Baba-Gombe, leader of the Nasarawa Community in
Calabar, expressed gratitude to the Nigerian Navy for its kind gestures. Baba-Gombe explained that the Hausa indigenes in the area were peace
loving people who have contributed greatly to the economical growth of
the community. One of the beneficiaries, Mr Haruna Lawal, 72, who received eye
treatment and was captured for glasses, commended the Navy for the free
medical intervention in the area. Lawal said that the gesture would go a long way in uplifting the health standard of residents in the area.