By Stephen Adeleye Lokoja, – The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Kogi chapter, has advised  Nigerians to remain calm and continue to pray fervently for peaceful elections. Its  state  chairman, Dr John Ibenu,  gave the advice while speaking to newsmen after a church service on Sunday in Lokoja. The cleric was reacting to the rescheduling of the Presidential and
National Assembly elections  to Feb. 23  from Feb. 16 by the Independent
National Electoral Commission (INEC). Ibenu appealed  for calmness despite  describing the postponement as being ‘unfortunate’. ”God is in charge; everything works together for good to them that
love God; we should see it as part of  the answers to our prayers from
God. “Those who are planning to cause violence should desist because God
will bring all their works and actions to judgment,” Ibenu said. He advised  Nigerians, especially Christians, to remain calm and
continue to pray fervently for peaceful and violence-free elections. The cleric also advised Nigerians to shun all acts of electoral
violence and malpractice at all times and in all places before, during
and after the elections. He urged Christians to vote for candidates who would stand for
righteousness, peace, joy, security, job creation, unity and progress of
Nigerians. Also, Pastor Dapo Olumuyiwa, the State Pastor of Living Faith Church,
Lokoja, urged Christians to be resilient and not be discouraged. He admonished them  not to be disappointed by the rescheduling of the
elections, but rather be more committed to voting against evil in
Nigeria. In his sermon with  the title: ”Walking In Dominion”, the cleric said
that believers had been redeemed to walk in established dominion by
Jesus Christ. He appealed to the congregation to come out massively on Feb. 23 to
exercise their civic rights without any fear of intimidation. The cleric also urged them  not to sell their votes nor release their PVCs to anybody no matter the inducement. He prayed that God would silence the devil and all its agents perpetrating evil against Nigeria.