By Fatima Mohammed-Lawal Ilorin – The Kwara Government on Wednesday in Ilorin inaugurated a nine-member committee on minimum wage. In his address, Alhaji Isiaka Gold, the Secretary to the state
government, said Gov. Abdulfatah Ahmed had expressed his preparedness to
ensure that workers in the state earn living wage. “The governor has agreed to examine the position of the Federal
authorities on the minimum wage and come up with the position of the
state government in the overall interest of the workforce and the people
of Kwara. “The Terms of Reference (ToR) of the committee will include the
immediate and remote circumstances surrounding the agitation of the
civil servants for the payment of N30, 000 minimum wage in Kwara. “Others include the actual rate being paid presently in the state and
the ability of the state government to pay the N30, 000 minimum wage to
civil servants in view of the prevailing economic realities,’’ Gold
said. Also, speaking at the inauguration, Mrs Susan Oluwole, Kwara Head of
Service, noted that the relationship between labour and government in
Kwara was cordial. “This is responsible for the industrial harmony and peace we enjoy in
Kwara and by implication the high productivity of the workforce in the
state,’’ she said. Oluwole urged the committee to work assiduously and come up with an
all-encompassing report that could stand the test of time and enhance
government and labour relationship. In his response, Alhaji Wasiu Odewale, the Commissioner for Planning
and Economic Development, said every responsible government strived to
pay a living wage so as to guide against mediocrity and its possible
consequences in service delivery. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that members of the Kwara
State Minimum Wage Committee include Alhaji Wasiu Odewale, the
Commissioner for Planning and Economic Development; Mr Yekini Agunbiade,
Chairman of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC); and Mr Kola Olumo, Chairman
of Trade Union Congress (TUC), among others.