By Emmanuel Oloniruha Abuja – The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar  has said that all hope is not lost, in spite of the declaration of President Muhammadu Buhari as the winner of Saturday’s election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Atiku in an earlier
statement on Wednesday had rejected the outcome of the election, saying
he was heading to court. Atiku at a world press conference in Abuja, he commended Nigerians
for choosing democracy and for voting for him on Saturday, urging them
to remain calm. “For my fellow Nigerians who feel angry, disillusion and let down by
the process, I appeal to you to remain calm and steadfast, Rome was not
built in a day. “We have the real figures, we have the facts that have spoken so loudly on Saturday, February 23, 2019. “As I have always said, this year is my three decades in Nigeria’s
struggle for democracy, and this is the worst election in those 30
years. “I told Gen. Abdsulsalami Abubakar two nights ago when he called me that not even the military conducted such a worst election. “This is a long journey but I am confident of victory. All hope is
not lost, stay strong. By the grace of God we shall triumph,” he said. Abubakar said that “Democracy is the government of the people and by the people only when the people’s choice prevails”. He alleged that on the election day, Nigerians witnessed the implementation of grand theft of the people’s will. He said that in Akwa Ibom for instance, the result showed a
statistical impossibility of a 62 per cent drop in voters’ numbers from
the 2015 elections, even where voter registration and Permanent Voter
Cards (PVCs) collection rates were much higher. “This is why voter suppression took place. “This pattern was repeated in strongholds of PDP including in states like Delta, Rivers, Abia and Benue States. “As this was occurring, we saw another statistical impossibility
where the real numbers tallied in numbers increased astronomically in
Borno State by an almost miraculous 82 per cent in the midst of
insecurity. “This pattern was also repeated in other strongholds of the APC states. “One begins to ask if insecurity is conducive to higher voter turnout
and security is antithetical to high voter turnout,” he said. Atiku said that it was curious that the PDP’s margin of victory in
states outside the South/East and South/South were extremely slim across
board, describing it again as a statistical impossibility. He said that the figures declared by INEC as results of Feb. 23 elections “do not add up at all’’. “My dear Nigerians, it is for this reason that I Atiku Abubakar
reject the result declared by the INEC which declared Muhammadu Buhari
as duly returned by the majority of the lawful votes. “I am conferring with not just my party but also Nigerian people on
the next step which will be revealed to the public shortly,’’ he said. He, however, urged the international investors and friends of Nigeria not to poll out of the country (NAN). By Emmanuel Mogbede Abuja - The All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign office located in… By Yakubu Uba Yola - The Director, Field Operations of President Muhammadu Buhari Campaign Organisation,… By Polycarp Auta Jos - The Police Command in Plateau has advised the residents to…