Abuja (Sundiata
Post) – The trial of President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Paul
Usoro, over N1.4 billion fraud, could not proceed on Tuesday before Justice
Muslim Hassan of Federal High Court Lagos, following the transfer of the case
to a new judge, Prof. Chuka Obiozor. Usoro is being
prosecuted by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on a 10-count
charge bordering on fraud. Also
named in the charge, is the incumbent governor of Akwa Ibom, Gov. Emmanuel
Udom, who is described in the charge as being “currently constitutionally
immune from prosecution”. Others
charged are: the Akwa Ibom State Commissioner for Finance, Nsikan Nkan;
Accountant-General of Akwa Ibom State, Mfon Udomah; the Akwa Ibom State
Attorney-General, Uwemedimo Nwoko and Margaret Ukpe. The
defendants were said to be at large. Usoro was
charged on December 18, 2018 before Justice Hassan, and his plea was taken. Hassan
had subsequently admitted him to bail in the sum of N250 million with one
surety in like sum. The court
had then adjourned the case until February 5, March 5, and March 6, for
continuation of trial. However,
on Tuesday, when journalists approached the court for coverage of the trial, it
was observed that the case was not on the cause list. On
enquiry, journalists were informed that the case had been transferred to
Justice Obiozor by the Chief Judge, following application to that effect. Meanwhile
in Justice Obiozor’s Court, the case was also not itemised on the cause list,
as the judge was said to be away on a workshop. In the
charge marked FHC/418c/18, the anti-graft agency alleged that the accused
committed the offence on May 14, 2016. The
commission alleged that Usoro conspired with others, to commit the offence
within the jurisdiction of the court. He was alleged to have conspired to convert the sum of N1.4 billion, property
of Akwa Ibom State Government, which sum they reasonably ought to have known
formed part of the proceeds of an unlawful activity. The prosecution said that the unlawful activity include
criminal breach of trust which contravenes the provisions of section 15 (2),
15(3), and 18 (A) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011. Source: The Nation