By Shuaib Sadiq Kaduna – Gov Nasiru El-Rufai of Kaduna State has said that the Organised Private Sector and Business Owners operating in the state must regard prompt payment of taxes as a responsibility. The governor made the remarks in Kaduna when he appeared on a
programme organised by the Kaduna Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines
and Agriculture in partnership with the OPS. The programme tagged `Interactive Session with Gubernatorial
Candidates` was  initiated by the two bodies to appreciate the plans of
the candidates for the private sector. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that El-Rufa’i was the
second candidate to address the organisers after the SDP candidate,
Haruna Sa’id appeared on Tuesday. The governor stressed that his administration had initiated policies
and reforms that made Kaduna State number one in the Ease of Doing
Business ranking in the country. “With our new laws and policies we have moved the state in the ease
of doing business ranking from number 24 it occupied in 2014 to number
one in 2016 in the country and that has attracted many investments into
the state. “Tax is very important to the government and business operators must
ensure their taxes are remitted promptly and appropriately for
government to be able to provide more infrastructure, social services
and security to the citizens of the state.” According to him, the state government had reviewed its tax laws to a
moderate level that every operator with a registered business name in
the state would be able to pay as when due. He added that the government had provided enabling environment for
all operators in agriculture and the economic sector to grow their
businesses in the state. “Kaduna currently is number one in Maize, Sorghum, Ginger and Tomato
production in the country and, as we speak, investments are coming in
tomato processing through different value chains.“ Speaking on the high cost of business registration, the governor
said:“Our research results showed that it was better to have something
uniform and we all agreed that N10,000 for business registration is not
to high. “But we can still discuss that and see how we can work around it with my team and other stakeholders.“ He identified some of the challenges facing business operators in the
state to include high interest rate and poor documentation. He agreed that accessing credit from commercial banks had become
difficult due to high interest rate of 24 per cent,“that is very high
and running a business with that is not possible. “Another difficultly is that many business owners do not pay
appropriate taxes, they do not have proper documents for their lands. “Most business owners do not have bank accounts and permanent addresses for them to access the state government micro credit. “You must have business place registered, have up to date tax
payment, have a bank account and with a residential address, where we
can find you. “We are offering micro credit facility at single digit interest rate
of nine per cent. But you must meet all these conditions for you to
access the soft loans being offered by the state government,“ El-Rufai
said. He assured that the government was utilising taxes collected effectively. “We are not stealing your money pay your taxes adequately. Every
money we ask you to pay as tax is being utilised to develop the state. “The land use charge only came into use in 2017, before the land use
charge, it was only ground rent which is between January and December of
every year and, is among the lowest in the country,“ he said. The governor also spoke on efforts to revive textile industries in the state. “Already we are concluding arrangement with Chinese investors who are
willing to invest $200 million, and they asking for about 4000 hectares
of land and some other conditions. “All I can promise is that we are doing whatever we can to revive the
Kaduna textile industry, but as a garment industry for military and
paramilitary uniforms. “We are talking with the Federal Government on steady electricity
while we as a state, are looking at issues of tax holidays and
subsidized water supply. “We are also collaborating with Dangote Group, and would soon setup a
new Peugeot automobile plant to produce trucks and other automobile
products that would be less expensive and more affordable to the people. “We are going to phase out the Keke Napep and replace it with taxi cabs to be assembled by the plant.” On security, he said the administration would soon introduce drones to address the security challenges. According to him security is the basic operating principle for any government to perform in a state like Kaduna. “We are using technology; we have acquired drones and would soon be put into use. “President Muhammadu Buhari would have commissioned the drones during his visit but his schedule was too tight. “We are also using advanced Radio communication gadgets with a long range to combat kidnapping and banditry in the state. “The menace of bandits and kidnapping has reduced and we are not relenting, we would continue address it. “We are even trying to acquire a helicopter for Ariel view all in the
effort to effectively tackle security challenges in the state. “We are also setting up a Security Trust Fund, with private sector
contributing to the fund and the management of the funds through a
board. The bill had been signed into law,“ El-Rufai said. NAN reports that more than 30 business operators attended the event.