By Glory Abuh-Adejoh Abuja, – The National Industrial Court, Abuja, on Thursday ordered the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC), to pay a former Deputy General Manager of the defunct Hallmark bank, Eze Okorocha, N27.9 million, being his benefits within 30 days. The amount was the outstanding balance of his disengagement benefits. Okorocha had sought redress in court when the defendant said the bank
did not compute and credit his account with his disengagement benefits
before the bank went into liquidation. He, therefore, sought an order of the court directing the defendant
to pay him the sum of N27.9 million, being the unpaid balance of his
benefits following his disengagement from the bank. In her judgment, Justice Rakiya Haastrup said the evidence of the
claimant under cross examination remained unchallenged by the defendant. She added that at the time of the claimant’s resignation, the bank
was still in operation and that his benefits was due to be paid on Dec.
22, 2005. Haastrup said there was no sufficient evidence by the defendant that
it was shortly after disengagement of the claimant that the bank was
liquidated, such that the claimant will not have been entitled to
payment of his benefits. The judge also said the defendant had the obligation to settle debts
having taken over all the assets and liabilities of the bank. Haastrup said the defendant, as appointed liquidator of Hallmark Bank
Plc, and having also taken over the assets and liabilities of the bank,
should pay the claimant his entitlements in the sum of N27.9 million. This she said was, “Unpaid balance of the claimant’s benefits
following his resignation/disengagement from the bank as Deputy General
Manager, on Dec.21, 2005. “The above judgement sum shall be paid within 30 days from the date
of this judgment, after which 10 per cent interest per annum shall
thereafter be paid on the judgment sum.” Counsel to the claimant, Ramat Oguta, said her client served the bank
for 10 years and was, therefore, entitled to be paid his retirement
benefits as stipulated in the bank’s package. The counsel further averred that the bank failed to pay the claimant his benefits until it went into liquidation in 2006. She said the defendant later paid the claimant N10.6 million, and
that the balance of N27.9 million was not paid to the claimant because
it was not credited to his account before the closure of the bank. The counsel further said the defendant informed the claimant that he
could not be treated as a depositor but a creditor whose claims would be
treated at the appropriate time. The defence counsel, T. Aondo, said the claimant was a creditor and
not a depositor because at the time the defendant took over the bank,
the claimant’s benefits had not been computed neither was his account
credited. Aondo added that the sum of N10.6 million earlier paid to the
claimant as part of his benefits was from the realised assets of the
bank. He further submitted that the defendant was not disputing the claimant’s unpaid balance. The counsel, however, said further payment would be made from realised assets of the bank, which was an ongoing exercise. He closed his argument by saying further payments must be in
accordance with the provisions of the law following priority list and
since the claimant was not a depositor.