Dubai – Iran displayed a new cruise missile with a range of 1,300 km (800 miles) on Saturday during celebrations marking the anniversary of the 1979 Islamic Revolution, State television reported. Iran has expanded its missile programme, particularly its ballistic
missiles, in defiance of opposition from the United States and
expressions of concern by European countries. Tehran says the programme is purely defensive. “This cruise missile needs a very short time for its preparedness and
can fly at a low altitude,’’ Defence Minister, Amir Hatami, said during
the unveiling ceremony. The surface-to-surface missile, named Hoveizeh, is from the Soumar
family of cruise missiles, which Iran added to its arsenal in 2015,
Hatami said. Western experts say Iran often exaggerates its weapons capabilities,
although there are concerns about its long-range ballistic missiles. Amirali Hajizadeh, head of the Revolutionary Guards’ aerospace
division, said at the event that Iran had overcome initial problems in
producing jet engines for cruise missiles, and could now manufacture a
full range of the weapons. The Defence Ministry’s website carried an undated video purportedly
showing the Hoveizeh being test-fired from a mobile launcher. It quoted Hatami as saying the missile had successfully hit targets at a distance of 1,200 km. Since agreeing to a 2015 nuclear deal with world powers, Iran has
expanded its missile programme despite warnings from the United States. In January, it tried to launch a satellite into space,which it said, failed. The launch followed a U.S. warning to Iran against undertaking three
planned rocket launches that Washington said would violate a UN Security
Council resolution. The resolution, which enshrined Iran’s nuclear deal, called on Tehran
to refrain for up to eight years from work on ballistic missiles
designed to deliver nuclear weapons. Iran says its missile tests are not in violation of the resolution
and denies its missiles are capable of carrying nuclear warheads. It says its missiles are defensive and used for deterrence and has rejected talks over its missile programme. U.S. suspends a key nuclear pact with Russia U.S. President Donald Trump quit the deal in 2018 and re-imposed
sanctions on Iran that had been lifted under the pact in return for
Tehran curbing its nuclear programme. Washington says although Iran has met the terms, the accord was too
generous, failing to rein in Iran’s ballistic missile programme, or curb
what the United States says is interference in regional affairs. Iran has developed a large domestic arms industry in the face of
decades-long international sanctionsand embargoes that have barred it
from importing most weapons. (Reuters/NAN)