By Yemi Adeleye Lagos – Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Wednesday solicited support of the Hausa community in the Southwest for the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari and other APC candidates in the zone. Osinbajo, who made the plea at a Town Hall Meeting with the Community
in Ikeja, Lagos State, said that some former leaders did not like
Buhari because of his stand against corruption. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Arewa community
leaders, drawn from Lagos State and other Southwest states, were present
at the meeting. “What we are hoping to see on Saturday is an affirmation, a vote for a
man who has proven through the years to be a man of truth and honesty. “The problem of our country is not that we don’t have enough money,
the problem is that of leaders that we put there, many of them stole
the money meant for the people. “We are able to do more than even when they (previous
administrations) are even earning more because the President is not a
thief. Even his worst enemies, those who hate him, know that he is a man
of truth. “They know he is a man who will not steal the money of the people,” the VP said. According to Osinbajo, it is unfortunate that the country has become a
place where people who are in power believe that the country’s money
belong to them and their friends. He said that the stealing ended when Buhari became the President and
that the government had achieved a lot with meagre revenue because of
commitment to use public funds to better the lives of citizens. Osinbajo said that public funds should be used for infratructure like
roads, power, schools, hospitals and that was what Buhari was committed
to which some corrupt people did not like. He added: “Let us not have any doubt in our minds, the battle for power in this country is the battle between good and evil. “There are some people who want to take the money of the country, there are some who want to use it for good. “This is not a religious matter, you find thieves among the
Christians, thieves among Muslims; you will find honest men among
Christians, we find honest men among Muslims. “I know one Muslim, who is an honest man, I know many, but one is
Muhammadu Buhari. He is an honest man. Everybody, even his enemies know,
he is an honest man. “Let us not doubt in our mind at all, this next level that we are
talking about by the Grace of God, the people of this country will begin
to enjoy the fruits of all the sacrifice they have made in the last
four years.” He said that the first term of the President was used to build the
foundation, saying that remarkable achievements had been made on
railway, power, road and other infrastructure. Osinbajo recalled that Buhari’s achievements as a former Head of
State and petroleum minister were still there for all to see, saying
that three of the four nation’s refineries were built by Buhari with
3500 k/m of pipelines. “This kind of man deserves a second term. If he leads this country
for another four years, this country will change completely. It will be
impossible for thieves to come back to this country. “This election is about the future of the country, it is about the
future of our own children and our own future. We must not allow anybody
to do anything that will upset where our country is going. “Muhammadu Buhari has done a term now by May it will be four years;
In another four years I promise you by the Grace of God, this country
will be a different place, it will be a country that all of us will be
proud of,” he said. The vice president, who said that he didn’t doubt the sincerity of
the Hausa leaders to vote, charged them to mobilise the Arewa community
to come out en mass to vote. Alhaji Ahmed Kabiru, the Chairman, Arewa Community in Lagos State who
commended Osinbajo for recognition of the community, said that Buhari
remained a sell-able product. “The principal thing I am selling is President Muhammadu Buhari and
Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. I have to sell it to this audience. “On behalf of the entire Arewa community across the nooks and
crannies of the South West Nigeria, I want to reassure you of our
support, our unflinching support for APC. “We are going to vote APC from the very top to the lowest position. I assure you, we are going to do this,” he said. He said that the group had been significant during elections and had
been contributing to the success and development of APC in the state,
urging Osinbajo not to forget the Arewa community. Alhaji Sadiq Babangida, Hausa Leader in Akure, said that the
community would not change its decision to support APC, adding that the
country needed honest and sincere leaders. At the meeting were Alhaji Umar Abdullahi, Chairman, Hausa Community,
Ondo State; Alhaji Ado Suaibu, the National President, Arewa Youth
Consultative Forum and Alhaji Ibrahim Hassan, Sarkin Hausawa, Abeokuta.
(NAN)