By Olanrewaju Akojede Lagos – Magboro Community along Lagos/Ibadan expressway has been thrown into darkness over an alleged indebtedness of the Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC) to the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Magboro Community has
been under a rotational power supply schedule with IBDEC but the company
has at various times failed to honour the agreement. The latest development, however, has seen power supply cut from the
community for about a week now which the residents have not been happy
with. There are also complaints by the residents over the crazy bills
imposed by IBEDC a result of estimated billing system it adopted. On the blackout experienced by the community, a resident, Mr Segun
Olumogbon, said that the Area Manager of IBEDC confirmed the problem
with the TCN. “The manager came out to tell us that it is not that there is a
problem with the light but it was switched off by TCN at Oke-Aro which
is the place of generation. The blackout is not as a result of problems
with the line. “The blackout has been an issue now, Magboro, Ibafo and some parts of
Asese community that used to have more constant supply have been cut
off too. “This is in spite of the huge amount IBEDC is collecting from us as a result of estimated billing system,’’ he said. Another resident, who introduced himself as Mr David, said that the
poor supply from IBEDC was unbecoming, adding that the community had
suffered enough in the hands of the electricity company. “The services from the IBDEC is appalling, we are not getting the value of the huge amount charged for the estimated billing. “When the issue of this blackout started, I visited IBEDC office and
the manager told me that the line was cut off by TCN because they
refused to supply. “We have our own monitoring team, so we decided to monitor from Ibafo
and Igodo communities where we found out that they don’t have power
supply as well. “At Igodo, where we met three officials of IBEDC, we were made to
understand that the problem is from Oke-Aro distribution centre,’’ he
said. Mr Tayo Ajayi, a resident of Oke-Afa, Magboro, said that the
rotational system adopted by IBEDC was a fraud, claiming that the
company had in many instances failed to honour the arrangement. “The rotational system whereby we will have one day light and like
two days off is not working at all, because many a time, IBEDC has
failed to honour the arrangement. “When it is our turn to have power supply, they will start giving
excuses for why we won’t have power supply, but they will always stick
to the days we are on off days. “Instead, IBDEC should have also altered their own arrangement by
giving us light to compensate for the time they were unable to give us
light, but they won’t. “The holiday they are enjoying is because of the estimated billing
they are giving us, but they should have it in mind that all the power
infrastructure are supplied through the community’s efforts. “We need the intervention of the electricity regulators on our
plight, or else we stage protest to drive home our grievances,’’ he
said. Responding to the blackout, the IBEDC Area Manager in charge of
Magboro, Mr Adewumi, told NAN that efforts were on to restore power to
the community. “There is issue with the transmission station (TS) but it will be resolved soon. I cannot divulge what the problem is for now. “The problem is been attended to at the management level and when it
is resolved, power supply will be restored to Magboro,’’ he said.