By Birnin Kudu Yusuf Daura – The North-West campaign council of the All Progressives Congress (APC) says it has began sensitisation of members and galvanise support for the victory of the party in the upcoming general elections’ The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)
reports that the first set of the election: Presidential and National
Assembly is slated for Feb.16. Retired Maj.-Gen Muhammadu Magoro,
Chairman of the council, told the News Agency of Nigeria NAN in Daura on
Thursday that the council comprised 21 senior and committed members of
the ruling party. He reiterated the commitment and
determination of the council toward the electoral success of all
candidates vying for electoral offices under the platform of the party
in the forthcoming general elections. Magoro said the council had impressive interactive sessions with state governors across the zone. He said the best way for party
stakeholders to face the election was to reach out to all those that
mattered, to ensure victory toward the electoral success of the party. Magoro said the council also paid
similar visits to important party members who felt aggrieved, to broker
peace and achieve reconciliation. According to him, politics is a game of number, adding that the party needs more supporters to come on board. He lauded Katsina,Jigawa,Kano and
Kaduna state governors for the advice they offered the council, on how
to achieve peaceful conduct of the general elections and ensure success
for the party. Magoro noted that the governors
concerned advocated strict adherence to electoral laws as the only way
that would guarantee peaceful, free, fair and credible election. He said the council would soon visit
Sokoto Kebbi and Zamfara to ensure effective sensitisation of party
members and how to ensure peaceful election. Magoro called on Nigerians to
re-elect President Muhammadu Buhari on Feb.16 election, considering his
administration’s positive impact in the key sectors of the national
economy. He listed agriculture, railways,
roads, security, youth empowerment, anti-corruption crusade among others
as some of the laudable achievements of the APC government under the
credible leadership of Buhari. The chairman assured that the next
four years of APC in power would be the good years of fulfillment and
consolidation on the successes so far recorded. Magoro expressed optimism that
pending pre-election issues in Zamfara and Rivers, concerning the party,
would soon be addressed in the most civilised and acceptable manner. NAN reports that Sen. Aliyu Wammako, who is also the former governor of Sokoto state, coordinates the activities of the council.