Olawale Jokotoye Abeokuta – The Africa Progress Group (APG) on Wednesday organised an International Roundtable to analyse and proffer solutions to the challenges posed by the increasing population growth rate in the region. The Roundtable, which was held at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential
Library (OOPL) in Abeokuta, Ogun, was attended by 18 globally-renowned
experts on population studies and scholars in socio-religious
disciplines impacting on population growth and management. The theme of the event is “Making Africa Population An Asset Rather
Than A Liability” and was co-chaired by former President Olusegun
Obasanjo and founder of Transparency International, Prof. Peter Eigen. According to the participants, Africa’s population is already a
problem and there is need to explore how the growth rate can be managed
from becoming a crisis and snowball into disaster. In examining the region’s population as a liability, they said that
the population of Africa was estimated in 2018 at more than 1.3 billion,
with a growth rate of more than 2.5 per annum, considered to be the
highest in the world, with a huge youth bulge. Obasanjo, in his remarks, said the discussions had become necessary
in order to sensitise African governments and other stakeholders within
and outside the region on the need for effective management of the
population to assure improved socio-economic development of the
continent. Obasanjo specifically observed that the growing and unmanaged
population was fuelling terrorism within the region, particularly the
Boko-Haram insurgency in Nigeria. He recalled that 25 of 26 arrested members of the Boko-Haram
interviewed by him said they joined the sect while they were in search
of job with only one admitting that he joined for religious reasons. A communiqué issued at the end of the Roundtable identified high
fertility, values placed on high number of children per family, male sex
preference, early marriage and gender power dynamics as some of the
factors fueling population increase in Africa. It observed that Africa’s huge population imposed liabilities on development of the continent, including: Imposing a high poverty profile of many African countries, estimated to be 72%. Inducing environmental damage, loss of bio-diversity and pollution and
disturbing rate of youth unemployment; Lowered the quality of the education system making many African
countries non-competitive in educational standards relative to the rest
of the world. The communiqué observed that Africa’s population could be turned to
an asset when it is used to make meaningful contribution to the entire
socio-political economy of the societies. The communique recommended enthronement and promotion of efficient
and effective governance in African counties as basis for turning the
region’s population to an asset. The communique, which emphasised the effectiveness of education in
the successful management of populations, recommended an overhaul of
educational systems in African countries. It stressed the need for better harmonisation of Islamic education
and Western education as successfully practised in a number of Islamic
countries including Tunisia, Egypt and Indonesia. It also emphasised investment in culturally-compliant family planning
procedure while showcasing, publicising and rewarding successful
practices. It stressed the need for increased participation in mechanised
agriculture, to foster food and nutrition security even with large
populations. (NAN)