Nigeria’s brand of democracy looks like a HIV/AIDS patient. Its health
deteriorates with each round of elections. The incidence of violence
before, during and after polls has risen steadily from 1999. Vote-buying
is the new name for bribe-for-vote democracy. Our democracy is
not growing – it’s marching backwards instead. The ritual we perform
every four years hasn’t yielded the “government of the people, by the
people and for the people” envisaged by Abraham Lincoln. Or will this
year’s general election, which begins this Saturday, throw up truly
elected representatives of the people? The size of election
petitions has increased. Several members of the bar and the bench have
always looked forward to this time in order to make a killing. Inec’s
partiality has manifested in brighter colours with every subsequent
election. The electoral body has become an irritant that digs deep into
public funds: this year, government funded it with N250billion, against
N80—100billion in previous elections. Inec’s budget tells just a
little part of the story. We now have over 90 parties – 73 of them
fielded presidential candidates for this year’s election, but only two
are likely to make any impression on the vote figures – and the
candidates have been breaking the banks to run their campaigns. Spending
limits once decreed by Inec are null and void and of no effect:
everybody has violated the law but nobody has been caught. The actual
amount wasted every election year – along with the collateral damage in
terms of human lives and property – can never be quantified. It’s
perhaps the actual reason for the perennial economic recessions in the
country. Our economy, almost always on tenterhooks, can’t take
the American model of democracy. Our forefathers didn’t waste lots of
money in the course of selecting their leaders. Those who transplanted
the presidential system to the Nigerian soil ought to be in jail! And
I’m not referring to only former military leaders who midwifed the past
three republics. Their civilian collaborators also lacked original
thinking – they were always looking up to the west for ideas. Now
it’s clear that Nigeria democracy is imperilled. We’re trapped in an
unworkable political system, and our economic system can’t therefore
stand.  Why wouldn’t there be a recession where fewer than 1, 700 idle
“leaders” consume a third of resources belonging to 200million people?
We have multiplied offices in 774 local government areas and in 36
states and the FCT, yet only a few people engage in actual production of
goods and services. Foreign debt, which the country exited in 2005, is
back: it is estimated that 60% of annual budgets will be used to service
loans from next year. Local debt has ballooned too: we hear that
government has borrowed over N6trillion of N9tr pension funds. The
unending “war” on terrorism is gulping funds the nation doesn’t have.
Any money spent on the military appears wasted. Over the past two
or three decades, many have suggested original plans for democracy in
Nigeria.  In 2002 a group called “The Patriots”, fearing the calamity
politicians’ salaries and allowances were doing to the common purse, had
approached President Olusegun Obasanjo with a plan to change the
constitution – the fraudulent 1999 constitution written by a few people
in their bedroom — to make way for a limit of one term for political
officeholders. Obasanjo told them “you can’t change the rule of the game
in the middle of a match”. After he had been re-elected in 2003, he set
up a constitutional conference which the Senate later threw out
together with Obasanjo’s third-term ambition. This same 1999
constitution has been amended in bits since 2001, yet nothing
substantial has been achieved. The National Assembly has gulped billions
of scarce naira for constitution amendment since then. All other
Nigerian presidents in this Fourth Republic have made attempts to
achieve political reform: Umaru Musa Yar’Adua set up the Muhammed Uwais
Committee shortly after his inauguration in 2007; sadly, sickness never
allowed him to rule. Goodluck Jonathan forwarded a bill for a six-year
single tenure for officeholders in 2011; he was shouted down. He later
set up the 2014 National Conference, but he lost election a few months
later and the confab’s recommendations went to the trash can. President
Buhari set up his own political reform committee headed by former Senate
president Ken Nnamani in October 2016; the panel and its prescriptions
died prematurely. All these prescriptions have been ignored, yet the
conferences and panels put together have cost billions of taxpayers’
naira. Nigeria is going nowhere without far-reaching political
reform, which would lead to administrative and then economic reform
also. I have talked about one cure-all solution several times. It needs
repeating. The colour of democracy I propose for Nigeria is one
in a lighter form: Spend little money to achieve great results. Take
governance to the grass roots, so communities could take charge of their
affairs – elections, security, tax collection, population census. Here
is how it works: Every adult Nigerian (age 18+) gets their
biometric data captured and stored in a national database.  Rather than
hold a national ID card, driver’s licence, tax information number, voter
card, bank verification number, social security number/card, and
whatever may be invented later, the Nigerian needs just one identity
card and number. With this card, he votes at elections, pays his tax,
pays for his driver’s licence, gets his passport, opens a bank account,
gets registered as a government employee, and pays whatever fees to the
government. This card is compulsory for every adult. Payment of tax –
even as little as N1, 000 per year – will also be compulsory for every
adult. For every election, Inec recruits its ad-hoc staff only
from federal and state civil servants – they need such additional work
because they do virtually no work in offices – who must reside near
their places of work. All politics is local: every election is
therefore conducted from the ward level. Our plan here is an improvement
on Option A4 first implemented by Professor Humphrey Nwosu in 1992. It
was a huge success, but Nigerian leaders detest innovation. The
voter register isn’t difficult to compile. From the database alone, the
computer prepares the register — with each voter’s name, age, place of
residence, and ID card number — within a second! Those who aren’t
up-to-date in their tax payment are excluded automatically. Election
riggers have a hard time paying for ghosts and foreigners, even if they
evaded the prying eyes of law agents and local chiefs. Inec officials
have no room to manipulate polls; they know they will be traced easily,
and the punishment is severe. With an authentic voter register,
Inec conducts free and fair primaries for parties and the actual
elections. On each voting day, you queue behind the poster of your
preferred candidate; Inec counts, announces and records the total votes
from each of 120, 000 polling stations.  The results are fed into the
computer at the nearest Inec office and… there you have winners and
losers within an hour after close of polls. Leaders other than
councillors emerge by an electoral college. Those who win at the ward
level sit to select a local government chairman from among them. They
also select lawmakers at the state and federal levels. And state
lawmakers elect the premier or governor. The selected federal lawmakers
elect the prime minister from among them. Commissioners and ministers
are also selected from those who won elections at the ward level;
whenever there is a need to change any commissioner or minister, an
election is conducted at their ward. The model I propose is
neither the presidential nor parliamentary system. It’s original – a
model that would serve us Africans at little cost. The toxic baggage we
already have will not let any government policy bear fruit. I have
always said that we missed it during military rule. If the jackboots had
really been benevolent, they would have turned Nigeria around for the
better, for they had the chance to take shortcuts. Selfishness didn’t
permit them: they created states and local government areas so their
people could benefit from oil funds without working. But, as we’ve now
found out, free oil money doesn’t solve problems. We must return to true
fiscal federalism where regions would manage their own resources and
contribute taxes to the central government. I won’t waste more
time rehashing all the needed reforms. Many of us have harped on them
for the past decade or two: a new constitution providing for a part-time
unicameral legislature at state and federal levels, dissolution of the
36 states and return to a true federal structure (a six-region
structure), seizing of all assets whose sources their owners cannot
explain, making politics and political offices unattractive. Nigeria
will not move an inch forward until it listens to the voice of reason.
Injustice runs deep in the land, and there cannot be peace if there is
no justice. The judiciary is a mess. Had the leaders of Nigeria
listened to agitators for a “sovereign national conference” in the last
25 years, perhaps Nigeria would have started working by now. Perhaps,
the thousands of lives lost to political crises, poverty and now
terrorism would have been saved. Perhaps the economy wouldn’t be looking
as hopeless as it does now. •Nwamu, book editor and writer, is the CEO of Eyeway.ng.