By Lucy Osuizigbo Lagos – The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Sen. Bola Tinubu on Wednesday refuted reports alleging that he boasted in Yoruba language to have stolen money. There are reports circulating in the media allegedly based on a
“leaked” audio tape of Tinubu at a crowded public meeting of APC
supporters in Lagos on Feb. 14. The reports claimed that Tinubu boasted that he stole money. Tinubu’s through his Media Officer, Mr Tunde Rahman, said in Lagos,
however, that he could never have uttered what was ascribed to him. He said that in a desperate attempt to paint him in a poor light, the
reports grossly mistranslated his statements to imply corruption and
election malpractice. “Politics is an arena where mischief and exaggeration may not be the best craft but are permitted excesses of the trade. “However, when people engage in wilful defamation, they have crossed the line into the impermissible. “I addressed a meeting attended by hundreds of people. The meeting
was open to the public at large. Moreover, the media was present and
visible. “There can be no leak involved when a statement is publicly made and the media present there. “The reports claim that I boasted that I stole money. The merchants
of this outlandishness used the fact that I was speaking Yoruba at the
meeting as the basis for their falsehood. “Thus, non-Yoruba speakers are left to accept their translation of my
words. Had I spoken in English they would not have a story to sell for
my words clearly do not say what they claim I said,” he said in a
statement. Tinubu said one of the issues addressed was the reward system for
loyal party members and supporters after securing victory for APC in the
2019 elections. “In short, I promised the party faithful, APC supporters and members a
reward for their efforts to secure victory in the 2019 elections. “I have previously stated the goal of getting three million people in
Lagos to sufficiently believe in the vision of the APC that they will
vote for President Buhari and Vice-President Osinbajo. “I said I will not go to Alausa and I will not steal money nor ask
for government funds. Instead, I will recognise the successful efforts
of APC members using only my personal funds. “The falsifiers seek to paint my statement as improper. However, it
is common practice to give tokens of gratitude to party members for
their work. It is feeble to suggest that such a practice somehow amounts
to vote-buying. “No one was directed to give money to potential voters. I made it
clear that the token rewards will only take place after the election. “As far as any reasonable person can discern, it is somewhat
impossible to purchase a vote after an election has already taken
place,” he said. Tinubu said he would not be cowed by the ugly attack, saying that he
was a progressive politician used to the bite and venom of those who
will hold Nigeria back. “They attack me as they do because they fear my appeal to the people.
For my popular goodwill is something they do not have and can never
get. I earned it through serving the people. “Thus, I shall continue to fight to keep Nigeria from the clutches of
those who will run the country not as a nation but as if it is their
private country club. “In the end, when everything that needs to be said is said, and all
that needs to be done is done, progress and hope shall defeat deceit and
the unjust privilege that is deceit’s master,” he said. (NAN)