By Abiodun Esan Ilorin – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has released the names of the 35 candidates that would be contesting the governorship election in Kwara. The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Kwara, Malam Garba
Attahiru-Madami, made the list available to the News Agency of Nigeria
(NAN) in Ilorin on Friday. In the list, Alhaji Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq is the candidate of the
All Progressives Congress(APC) while Kayode Alabi is his running mate. The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is Razak Atunwa while his running mate is Oladipo Solomon Muyiwa. Dr Olajide Adebola is the candidate of the Social Democratic Party  with Dr Abubakar Umar as his running mate. Labour Party  has Mr Isa Aremu  as its governorship candidate with Mrs Moses Rebecca is his running mate. In all, 35 governorship candidates would be contesting for the post of governor of the state with their running mates. The REC also told NAN that 28 political parties fielded candidates for the 26 slots of the House of Assembly seats. Meanwhile, APC has declared that the listing of Abdulrazaq as the
party’s flag bearer had  put to rest the claim of those parading
themselves as the candidate of the party. A statement  by Amb. Yahaya Seriki, the Director General, Kwara
Central, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq Campaign Organisation,  said the release
of INEC’s list naming AbdulraRasaq as flagbearer was  a victory to the
people of the state yearning for freedom. “The final release of the names of governorship candidates in which
our name emerged alongside other bonafide candidates across the country
has defeated the evil gimmick of those who sponsored confusion to stop
our people’s march to political freedom. “The ‘ O To Ge’ campaign in Kwara is an idea whose time has come
because we are poised to end tyranny, underdevelopment, poverty and that
annoying sense of entitlement by some overlords in this state. “We thank the people of Kwara for always believing in us despite every attempt to sabotage this movement. “We will not disappoint you all. Now that the INEC has finally
spoken, we urge the saboteurs to change their ways,” he said. (NAN)