By Chinyere Nwachukwu Lagos, Feb. 28, 2019 (NAN) The National Open University of Nigeria
(NOUN) says the recent signing of its (Amendment Act,2018) will place it
at par with all recognised universities in Nigeria. The Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council of the university
Prof. Peter Okebukola, said this at a news conference on Thursday in Lagos. According to him, with the act recently gazetted and published on
Dec. 3, 2018, will further strengthen the university to provide Open and
Distance Learning (ODL) opportunities to millions of Nigerians. “We want to extend our gratitude therefore to the Federal Government
of Nigeria, under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari for
signing the NOUN amendment Act. “This has recently been gazetted and published on the 3rd of Dec. 2018 as National Open University (Amendment) Act 2018. “With this recognition, the university is now placed at par with all
recognised universities in Nigeria under the various Acts that amended
the provision of higher education in Nigerian universities. “What this means for the students also is that they now have a vista of opportunities that they did not have before. “For instance, for those who are reading Law, it will enable them
access after graduation to take on their training in the Law School as
negotiations between the university and the Council for Legal Education
on this, has almost reached a breakthrough. “It also will allow those who are eligible to be mobilised for NYSC
to go for NYSC but to me, what it means is that it elevates the NOUN to
the same level with other universities, in terms of status and
provisions as the others. “So, we can operate as they operate, we have the same general
guidelines for our operations and so no one will say NOUN is substandard
to the others,” he said. Okebukola said the council had also approved March 23 and March 23,
for the university’s 2019 convocation ceremony, where approximately
18,000 students will be graduating. He added that a total of 17,000 students would be officially admitted
into the university for the 2018/2019 academic session during its
matriculation ceremony scheduled for March 3, in all the study centres
across the country. Okebukola, who lauded the TETFund for intervening in capital
development and in staff capacity building and also urged continuous
funding for NOUN, being a specialised university that enroles the
largest number of students in Nigeria. The Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Abdalla Adamu,
reiterated the management’s commitment to producing quality graduates
needed to take the country to the next level. “Our university remains the university to beat in the country and
Africa as a whole, going by our programmes, study materials,
affordability, and others,” Adamu said. (NAN) London - Nigeria’s dollar-denominated government bonds rose to 5-7 month highs on Wednesday after President… Former President Olusegun Mathew Okikiola Aremu Obasanjo hurriedly fly out of Nigeria through Murtala Mohammed… PDP has rejected the results of last Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections being announced…