By Ibironke Ariyo Abuja – The Useful Youth Vision Concepts (UYVC),  an NGO, has cautioned youths in the country to shun  thuggery and other forms of violence before, during and after the planned general elections. The President of the NGO, Mrs Adetokunbo Shonibare, gave the advice
in an Interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in
Abuja. Shonibare said that Nigerian youths should realise that they were not
only leaders of tomorrow but some that of them constitute the structure
of today’s leadership in the country. She said youths owed the nation the obligation to be good ambassador
in any legitimate endeavours they might find themselves, in and outside
the country. Shonibare called on parents and guardians to check the conduct of
their children and words, to dissuade them from indulging thuggery,
especially as the country prepares for another election on Saturday. “I want to urge youths to desist from any act that will jeopardise
the peaceful election, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)
has promised Nigerians. “They should maintain peace and decorum before, during and after the conduct of the general elections. “The youth should resist attempt by politicians to use them as agents to achieve their selfish ambition. However, youths being the future of this country, deserve to be
treated as persons with equal opportunities and rights to contribute to
the development of our nation,“ she said. She also called on youths to unite against electoral violence, bad
governance and sharp practices, adding that such practices were
detrimental to the growth and development of the nation. Shonibare called on them to be agents of peace in their various
communities, most especially during the forthcoming general elections,
to ensure free and fair election. NAN reports that INEC postponed the Presidential and National
Assembly elections to Feb. 23, citing logistics and operational problems
for taking such decision. NAN also reports that the Governorship and House of Assembly as well
as FCT Area Council elections have been shifted from March 2 to March 9.