Abuja (Sundiata Post) –
Presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku
Abubakar, yesterday, insisted that there is a  plot by the ruling All
Progressives Congress  (APC) to rig the forthcoming general elections by
importing   foreigners into the country to vote in the February 16
elections. Atiku Atiku spoke at the PDP presidential
campaign rally held in Benin-City, Edo State. He, therefore, advised the
PDP faithful to be vigilant and should not allow anybody to force them to
leave their polling units after voting, saying that they should stay until the
results were declared before leaving their units. Obaseki assures
electorates of enduring infrastructure, others “When you vote, like I said, it
is about your future, where you vote, stay there, tell them that that result
must be declared and if you go, they will cheat you, they will rig the
election”, the presidential candidate said. “You see how they are bringing
people from Niger and Chad Republic. They will come in your own country to
turn   you to slaves, do not agree, after that, you can now go and
make sure they do not rig you”. The opposition party had, on Thursday, raised
the allegation that foreigners were being mobilised to rig the 2019 polls after
two governors from Niger Republic attended the campaign rally of President
Muhammadu Buhari who is seeking re-election on the platform of the All
Progressives Congress (APC). The stranded squirrels
in Ezekwesili’s party Atiku, who arrived the rally ground at 5pm, yesterday in
Benin-City, said Nigerians should not forget in a hurry how the  PDP
rescued the country from poverty and debts that the ruling “APC has  now
returned the country into”. “They have already destroyed this country. This is the first time
we are having 21 million out of jobs. Never in this country, are most of you
people out of jobs, it is APC that has caused this problem for you. So, join me
now to send them home”, the presidential candidate said. “We are not like APC,
you know what PDP has done for this country. The price of crude was
$11 yet we saved to pay all our foreign debts. We saw prosperity, we saw gsm
revolution. We want to continue with this prosperity. So we appeal to you to
vote PDP”. He however promised to
create jobs for the unemployed in the country. “I have always told Nigerians
that I am the bridge between my generation and your own generation”, Atiku
said. “There is something I can see here, virtually
90 percent are young men and young women and that is why I said my government
is going to be made up of 70 percent young men and women because if you look at
the number of people who have registered between the young men and women, they
constitute about 70 percent and what does it mean? “ It means we have to
prepare you to take over the rein of government of this country, we have to
prepare you so that you can have a meaningful career. Whatever you want to do,
so that you can succeed”. Speaking also, the
National Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, appealed to the
Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, not to use Internally
Displaced Persons IDPs, to rig the forthcoming general elections. “Today we are convinced
without reasonable doubt that the people of Edo State have come out here in
their numbers and by your own mandate, come 16 of February, you will come out
to vote Atiku”Secondus said. “Atiku is coming to rescue Nigeria from
poverty, from hunger, from mass stealing, to create jobs, he is very energetic
with his wealth of experience and Nigeria will be better again but we warn INEC
not to use IDPs to rig the election or else, there will be trouble”. Source: Vanguard