By Ojonugwa Felix Ugboja The 2019 Presidential and National Assembly elections were slated for yesterday after one week Postponement by INEC. But the logistics problems that led INEC to postponing the elections seems not to have been averted as many elections were cancelled yesterday due to a number of reasons like violence, INEC’s inability to arrive at several venues to commence the process. As for the violence that disrupted the exercise in places, many Nigerians might not be disappointed, given the level of tantrums thrown around by politicians in the lead up to the crucial elections. Saturday’s presidential and national assembly elections were hallmarked by violence, failure of smartcard readers and late arrival of materials at many polling units across the country. In previous elections, collation of results ought to have officially commenced by now, but there seems to be a lot of delay. Suspected hoodlums reportedly attacked INEC office in Osun hours after the conclusion of the presidential and senatorial elections in the state, burning all sensitive ballot materials which had already been used. Collation of results are only possible when most elections are concluded, but inconclusive elections which continues till today, INEC’s disorganization, violence and irregularities have largely prevented the collation from starting. INEC has announced that it will Conduct Fresh Elections In Parts Of Jigawa, Rivers, Lagos and many more places. Mahmoud Isah, the Jigawa state Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), noted that 90 per cent of issues related to card readers in the state had been resolved, and hopefully, the Election will take place to enable collation. INEC has also confirmed via its official Twitter account that “Elections are still ongoing in some areas of the Country; however detailed reports of such areas will be communicated at a briefing coming up by 3pm today @ the National Collation Center, Abuja.” In Abia: INEC officials reluctant to return to Ward 5, PU 12 and 13 Afara Ohokobe after being allegedly chased away by voters on Saturday. “We can’t go there again without security and the security operatives said they can’t follow us,” one of the corps members told TheCable. There is also an ongoing mild drama in Kano State as the returning officer for Kano Municipal Local Government collation center detects irregularities in result sheets. This was revealed in a video making rounds on social media posted by The Guardian. Another casualty delaying collation. Collation Centre in Yaba flooded due to heavy rain. Journalists and observers had to look for alternative shelter within the Commission’s premises. Two INEC Presiding Officers Abscond With Election Results In Katsina Two presiding officers have escaped with election results for their poling units in Katsina State, prompting the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The first incident happened with the presidential election in Polling Unit 004, Wakilin Yamma II Ward, Katsina Local Government, while the second happened with another polling unit with the senatorial and house of representatives elections in Wakilin Yamma II. For the first case, the Collation Officer told SaharaReporters that the commission had done everything possible to track the Presiding Officer, but it all proved abortive. “We collated results for 25 polling units; we were waiting for the last one, which is PU 004,” he said. “The Presiding Officer was nowhere to be found. We contacted him through phone; we spent like five hours calling him but he did not pick. Party agents called him, security agents searched for him but he is nowhere to be found. We have filled an incident form and we have had to cancel that polling unit.” Also, the Collation Officer for Wakilin Yamma II said two polling units were unavailable for Senate and House of Reps collation because the Presiding Officer refused to show up. “The materials were duly dispatched, and elections duly conducted at both units,” he said. “But after several efforts to reach the PO, the units were cancelled with the approval of the Electoral Officer of INEC KATSINA LGA.” So with all these factors, the postponement of elections in some parts of Lagos, Anambra and Rivers States, where polls could not hold due to the burning of election materials and other acts of violence, and INEC’s own organisational challenges, one can make sense of what’s delaying the commencement of results collation.