By Olanrewaju Akojede Lagos – Julian Okoro, the winner of the female category of wheelchair race, 2019 Access Bank Lagos City Marathon, says her desire is to target the number one spot in the wheelchair race in the world. Okoro, who could not contain her joy after emerging champion in the
female category of the iconic race, told the News Agency of Nigeria
(NAN) on the sidelines that coming tops was unbelievable. “I can’t say how I am feeling right now, I am very happy indeed for
this feat. I am not expecting it at all though I had lots of preparation
towards the race. “I cant believe that running this race will fetch me a whooping N1 million and a plot of land, this is quite unbelievable to me. “It is not that I planned it all to win the race, but as the race
progresses, I kept on telling myself that I can do it, and now, it is a
reality. “I know that there are several others who have more advantage than I
do because they have more sophisticated wheelchairs, but God gave me
strength,” she said. Okoro, an Ebonyi indigene, said she would love to rule the world,
adding that her next target was to win gold at the Tokyo 2020,
Paralympics. “I have won this and my target is never to look back until I become
the next world champion. I am targeting the gold at the Paralympics. “I have sponsored myself for this race, but government gave me the
opportunity of becoming the champion, maybe I will get more support in
my quest at becoming the world champion,” she said. NAN reports that Okoro got a cash prize of N1 million and a plot of
land for her effort at becoming the champions of the Access Bank Lagos
City Marathon wheelchair race. Also, Ethiopian Sintayehu Legesse won the male event returning the
time of 2:17:27secs, while Kenyas Joshua Kipkorir returned 2:18:14secs
to place second, and Ethiopian Yegon William with the time of
2:19:02secs came third position. For the female category, Dinke Messeret of Ethiopia won with
2:47:58secs, while her compatriot Herepa Alemnshe came second with a
time of 2:49:01secs. Kebena Chala Kebena returned a time of 2:49:04secs to clinch third position. (NAN)