By Thompson Yamput  Barkin Ladi – The PDP governorship candidate in Plateau, Sen. Jeremiah Useni, has promised to settle outstanding gratuities owed retired workers, if elected governor. “Every worker will receive his or her gratuity on retirement. This
should be a right and not a privilege,” Useni said on Saturday, at a PDP
campaign rally in Barking Ladi. The retired army General regretted that many retired workers had died
while struggling for their entitlements, and accused the APC-led
government of paying “only five per cent of bulk gratuity to each
retiree”. “Some of these retirees have spent over five years without receiving
their gratuities. PDP will not allow such injustice to continue on the
Plateau,” he said. The PDP flag bearer, who pledged to run an all-inclusive government, promised to improve the welfare of workers of the state Useni told workers not to be deceived by the “mere” payment of monthly salaries by the  government. “It is not enough to get your salaries while still in service. The
most critical moment is when you have left service. I will make the
payment of gratuities a priority so that retired workers will not wallow
in poverty,” he said. Also speaking, Chief Damishi Sango, State PDP Chairman, urged the
people to deliver bloc votes to Atiku Abubakar and Useni, to enable them
clinch the Presidential and governorship seats. Sango told the people to defend their votes so that they won’t be robbed of victory. “Atiku and Useni are tested leaders. If given the chance, they will
rescue Nigeria and Plateau from poverty, hunger and suffering,” Sango
stated. Also speaking, Mr Istifanus Gyang, Plateau North Senatorial candidate
of the party, said that PDP would deliver dividends of democracy to
Nigerians “instead of the lies we are currently being fed with”. Gyang lamented the incessant killings and destruction of lives and
property across the nation, and promised a better deal for Nigerians if
his party was elected into office. Rep Edward Pwajok, who recently defected to the PDP from the APC, in a
remark, declared that Plateau people were already tired of the APC and
were anxiously waiting to replace it with the PDP.