By Rabiu Sani Maiduguri – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says it would deploy more than 22, 000 ad hoc staff for election duty in Borno, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Alhaji Muhammad Ibrahim, has said. Ibrahim told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in
Maiduguri that the ad hoc staff would be deployed as election officers
to the 27 local government areas of the state in the forthcoming general
election. He disclosed that the ad hoc workers were selected among the Federal
Civil Servants, members of National Youth Service Corps (NYSC),
university lecturers and teachers in tertiary institutions of learning
in the state. Ibrahim said that the commission had trained corps members and other
workers on election duty procedures and what is expected of them during
the election process. The REC added that the commission had adopted effective measures to
ensure that corps members were only deployed to polling units in
Maiduguri metropolis, noting that the measure was imperative to ensure
their safety. Ibrahim said: ”INEC leadership adopted knowledge driven approach to
build capacity of its personnel to enable them discharge their duties
effectively.” According to him, the commission through the Inter-Agency Committee
on Election Security had adopted proactive measures to facilitate
conduct of peaceful and hitch free exercise. Ibrahim explained that membership of the committee include the
military, police, Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps, Customs,
Immigration and other para-military organisations. He added that INEC was working closely with political parties,
candidates and other stakeholders, to sensitise the people to be orderly
and avoid acts capable of breaching peace during the election. The REC added that the commission had embarked on comprehensive
awareness campaign to educate the electorate on election procedures and
processes. Elaborating on the sensitisation exercise, Ibrahim said the campaign
was designed to encourage orderliness, promote compliance with electoral
laws and ensure proper conduct of voters as well as balloting. ”We embarked on comprehensive publicity and sensitisation activities
to create awareness on orderliness and the voting processes. ”We are geared to promote voter education, orderliness and good
conduct during the election,” he said, adding that the commission had
sponsored television and radio jingles and distributed leaflets in that
regard. Ibrahim called on political parties, religious and communities
leaders as well as stakeholders to educate their people on the need to
ensure proper voting and peaceful conduct of the election. On the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), Ibrahim revealed that 409,833 displaced persons were registered by the commission. According to him, the commission had developed framework and
guidelines for IDPs voting, to enable them exercise their franchise. Ibrahim explained that the displaced persons were categorised into
intra-state and inter-state IDPs, noting that the former would vote in
all the elections, while the latter would vote only in the presidential
election. He disclosed that the IDPs from eight local government areas of the
state would vote in various camps located in Maiduguri and other
communities. The commissioner listed the affected councils to include Abadam, Guzamala, Marte, Dikwa, Ngala, Kukawa, Mobbar and Kala Balge. ”Effective arrangements have been put in place for inter-state IDPs
to vote in the state of domicile so that they will not be
disenfranchised. ”Smart Card Reader in IDPs camp will be configured to the Registration Area (RA) level. ”Registration Area is different from the Polling Unit (PU). In PU,
you can go further, it is the last point of voting, but if there is
insecurity you stop at RA,” he said. Ibrahim added that the commission equally adopted effective measures
for People with Disability (PWDs), to guide and assist them vote
properly. He added that election officers were directed to give special attention to the PWDs during voting and election processes. NAN reports that INEC had registered more than 2.3 million voters for the 2019 election in the state.