Olukayode Babalola Lafia – The National Orientation Agency (NOA) will take its advocacy on reducing void votes during the 2019 elections to Federal establishments in Nasarawa State. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the gesture is to seek
partnership in enlightening the electorate in the state on how to vote
properly during the forthcoming general elections. Mrs Priscilla Gondualor, NOA Director in Nasarawa State, made this
known in Lafia on Thursday at a meeting with Board of Co-heads of
Federal Establishments in the state. She said NOA would embark on the enlightenment of the electorate on
what to expect, what role to play and how to properly vote for
candidates of their choice as well as reducing void votes and ensuring
that their votes count. “One of our goals this period is to educate voters on how to handle
ballot papers and to thumb print in the most appropriate manner, to
minimize void votes as well as avoid election violence,” she said. According to her, voter education should be seen as the collective
responsibility of everyone, to educate others on making the process not
only credible, but free in all ramifications, hence the advocacy to
federal establishments to join NOA to achieve the set goals. “We want the people to know the right things to do, so that their
votes actually count. That is why we want your support to educate the
people on the right steps to take during elections,” she said. The NOA Director also encouraged the electorate to resist vote
buying, while working towards ensuring that the country experienced the
most peaceful and transparent election in history. “Peaceful elections presupposes justice. When you see injustice
taking place; when you see people trying to cheat you or rob you of what
you thought you did correctly, that is when violence breaks out,” she
said. Responding, Mr Musa Katai, Nasarawa State Coordinator of the Federal
Character Commission and Chairman of Co-Heads of Federal Establishments
in the state,  thanked the NOA Director and her entourage for the visit
and promised to support the agency to achieve free and fair elections in
the state. He, however, appealled to the Federal Government to complete the
Federal Secretariat project, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) project,
among other Federal projects located in the state,  to create a
conducive working atmosphere for Federal Government agencies. (NAN)