Yenagoa – The Bayelsa government has vowed to deal with people stockpiling arms with intention of causing violence in the forthcoming general elections in the state. The government made the pledge at the State Executive Council meeting on Thursday in Yenagoa. The government said it would use the instrumentality of the law to
punish anyone or group found to be disrupting the existing peace in the
state during and after the forthcoming general elections. The council at its 104th meeting said it also deliberated extensively
on a report before it that some politicians in the state are
stockpiling arms for the purpose of causing mayhem. Addressing newsman, the new Attorney-General and Commissioner for
Justice, Arthur Seweniowor, said the government would not fold its arms
and watch unscrupulous politicians to turn the state into a killing
field. He stated that as a responsible government it would not allow what
happened during the 2015 and 2016 governorship election to repeat
itself. The state’s attorney general and commissioner for justice also
stressed that Bayelsa government had a constitutional mandate to protect
lives and property. Seweniowor, who maintained that elections were not war but a healthy
contest to pick leaders, called on youths not to allow themselves to be
used by selfish politicians to commit atrocities. “The violence that characterised the 2015 governorship election in the state was still fresh in our minds. “If you recall, the government did set up a panel of inquiry to
investigate the crisis that engulfed parts of the state in course of the
election. “A white paper was later produced after the panel submitted its
report. It is sad to note that those indicted in that report are still
the same persons who are stockpiling arms today. “We want to make it clear that on no account will anyone be allowed to launch a reign of terror and brigand on the people. “We are determined to bring anyone or group of persons found culpable to book. “We call on our youths not to allow themselves to be deployed as
tools for electoral violence and manipulation,” Seweniowor said. On his part, the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Daniel
Iworiso-Markson, alleged that opposition politicians in the state were
not preparing for elections but war. Iworiso-Markson said: “ because they know how unpopular they are,
they have resorted to creating instability and turning the state into a
theatre of war.” He appealed to parents and guardians to talk to their children and
wards to stay away from desperate politicians and their evil plots. According to him, rather than take up arms, the youth should keep
their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) closer to elect responsible leaders
that will bring more development to the state. “Some of the opposition leaders only come back home when there is
election and because of they are not popular they institute violent
means to get into power,” he said.