By Douglas Okoro
Abakaliki, Feb. 15, 2019 (NAN) The Independent National Electoral
Commission (INEC), Ebonyi, has begun the distribution of sensitive and
non-sensitive election materials to the 13 Local Government Areas of the
state. Prof. Godswill Obioma, INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC),
made this known to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abakaliki on
Friday. He said that the distribution was preparatory to the presidential and National Assembly elections holding on Saturday, Feb. 16. He explained that the sensitive materials were distributed at the
Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Abakaliki branch, under heavy security
surveillance and monitored by party agents. Obioma said distribution processes had been structured to ensure that
election officials and materials arrived at polling units as early as
possible. According to him, the commission is in a last minute arrangement for smooth, successful and violence free polls in Ebonyi. He assured that polling would commence at 8a.m prompt in all polling
units in the 171 registration areas or wards in the state, adding that
accreditation and voting would be done simultaneously. According to him, voters are now at liberty to cast their votes with any of their five fingers during election. “The electorate should endeavor to vote properly to avoid void votes. “We are set for the first round of the elections slated for Saturday,
Feb. 16 and every preparatory arrangement has been concluded for smooth
and successful exercise. “We are appealing to Ebonyi electorate to come out and cast their votes. “We have begun the process of distributing the sensitive and
non-sensitive election materials to designated local government area
offices of our commission. “We will move the non-sensitive materials to the Registration Area
Camps (RACs) for easy movement to the polling units on election day. “Again, we in INEC reiterate our readiness and commitment to credible, seamless and transparent elections in Ebonyi. “I urge all eligible voters with their permanent voting cards to come out and exercise their franchise,” Obioma said.