By Rabiu Sani Maiduguri – The Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) on Wednesday distributed 150 cattle to re-settled farmers in Jere and Konduga Local Government Areas of Borno. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the bulls were
distributed to farmers selected from Auno and Gongolon communities of
Jere and Konduga Local Government Areas, respectively. NAN reports that each of the benefitting farmers received one bull,
to enable them engage in animal fattening under the livestock re-stock
programme supported by the European Union (EU). Nourou Macki-Tall, the Deputy FAO Representative in Nigeria,
disclosed that some 2, 000 youths in resettled farming communities would
be provided with bulls under the first phase of the programme. Macki-Tall said that the programme was also designed to encourage
livestock re-stock and provide means of livelihoods for the farmers. He said it would also fast track re-settlement of communities ravaged by Boko Haram insurgency in the state. He explained that the UN agency would monitor and support the
beneficiaries through the provision of free animal health services,
livestock feeds and training on animal care. He added that the World Food Programme (WFP) would provide monetary
support to enable them meet their financial needs and take care of the
animals, while UN-WOMEN would deliver gender equality and cooperative
management skills. ‘The productivity of the youth in the northeast could be unlocked
with strategic and complementary support including animal re-stocking
for depleted herds, access to startup capital, markets and training in
livestock production. “With bulls and other livestock provisions, youths will have an alternative source of much-needed income. ‘‘If young people have a productive livelihood in agriculture and can
meet their daily needs, they are far less likely to become hypnotised
by insurgent groups,’’ he said. According to him, the project will also engage community leaders in
restoring livelihoods and promoting greater youth access to land and
business opportunities. Elaborating further on the programme, he disclosed that the
organisation was targeting 100, 000 households under the project to be
implemented between 2018 and 2020. The FAO official explained that support services would be provided to
farmers, pastorals, and fishermen, adding that 10, 000 households were
targeted for goats and poultry distributions. He noted that the animals to be distributed were being quarantined
and vaccinated to ensure safe introduction to the communities. Also, Mr Bitrus Mshelia, Technical Adviser, Ministry of
Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (RRR), in the state
revealed that the state government had so far distributed over 3, 000
animals and 16, 350 chicks to re-settled farmers in Kaga and Konduga
Local Government Areas. Mshelia said that the gesture was to provide livelihoods and accelerate re-settlement of displaced communities. While commending FAO over the gesture, Mshelia called on the
beneficiaries to ensure effective utilisation of the animals and engage
in productive activities. One of the beneficiaries, Salisu Nara, 25, also commended the
gesture, adding that it would go a long way in assisting him to engage
in animal fattening.