By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja
(Sundiata Post) – Igbo Socio-cultural group, Ohanaeze Ndigbo has slammed
President Muhammadu Buhari over alleged victimization and marginalization of
Ndigbo in his administrations appointments. The group which
wondered what Ndigbo have done to this administration to deserve this ill-treatment,
reminded that the current postings by the Police Service Commission, PSC, have
once more vindicated the position of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide. Ohanaeze
berated the action of the Buhari-led federal government in a statement he
personally signed and made available to news men. The
statement reads in full: The current postings
by the Police Service Commission, PSC, have once more vindicated the position
of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide on the mindless victimisation and marginalization
of Ndigbo by the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government. A cursory
look at the list of the newly-posted Commissioners of Police to States
throughout the country indicates the obvious lopsidedness in both the number of
Ndigbo affected and their states of posting. The whole of
the seven Igbo-speaking states in the country has only two Commissioners of
Police while some single states have two or more and some geopolitical zones
more than six or seven. President
Buhari came on campaign to Anambra State and insulted Ndigbo by saying that his
postings were based on merit and that is why the South East zone is completely
absent in the security apparatchiks of the country. In other words,
no Igbo man or woman is intelligent or brilliant enough or has his confidence to
head any of the security apparatus of Nigeria, and to buttress his point, only
two Igbo officers are “meritorious” to be appointed Commissioners of
Police in charge of States. To further
rub it in, the only two are posted to the most hazardous war-torn areas of the
north –Zamfara and Borno States. It is worthy
to note that Ndigbo have always formed the majority of soldiers posted to these
war zones and have paid their dues including producing a worthy General Officer
Commanding troops and who distinguished himself there. What have
Ndigbo done to this administration to deserve this ill-treatment? The
Nigeria/Biafra War ended nearly fifty years ago. Why the continued
marginalization? This kind of
discrimination should not be lost on Ndigbo, especially at this period of
reckoning and payback. It would be remembered that two brilliant
Deputy Inspectors General of Police were recently retired by this
administration to pave way for the appointment of the current Acting Inspector
General of Police, Mohammed Adamu. If Mr President
loves Ndigbo as he is canvassing, why didn’t he try to balance the glaring
absence of Ndigbo at a table where the security of this country is decided? Ndigbo shine your eyes! Shine your eyes and
vote wisely. Chief John
Nnia  Nwodo President
General Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide.