On the eve of the rescheduled February 16
presidential and national assembly elections, I got a call from my
illiterate 86-year old mother from Owo in Ondo State, advising that I
should exercise caution during the election. I remember we had discussed
a number of times before then and had agreed that she did not have to
go out to vote on the Election Day even though she has always had her
permanent voter card (PVC).    She had
suggested that I should consider staying away from the polling centres
and voting because of the killings somewhere in Kaduna and I could sense
the tone of apprehension in her voice. Interestingly, as far as she is
concerned, it does not matter that Abuja is the Federal Capital
Territory, where the president lives and where the entirety of the
nation’s security architecture has its command room. The FCT is, to her,
part of geographic north.  Immediately, I
knew she was referring to the media report about the alleged killing of
66 persons in Kajuru Local Government Area who, according to the Kaduna
State Governor, Malam Nasir el-Rufai, were of the Fulani stock. While my
mother claimed to have heard the news on the radio, I had watched and
listened to el-Rufai, on one of the television stations, talk about the
issue.    This simply underscores the role
of the media in escalating real and imagined violence. Once the piece of
information from Kaduna was fed into the media mill, it assumed a
distinct life and began to achieve the purpose for which it was
disseminated: tension.  The information about the alleged Kajuru
killings was not for public good. It was mischievous outright and
politically motivated to fit into the original plot of fanning the
embers of anxiety and reprisal attacks in the area. 
 That is the real tragedy of the reported killing of the “Kajuru 66” as
has been promoted and sustained by el-Rufai through deployment of the
state government machinery. el-Rufai spoke on the killings on the eve of
the rescheduled February 16 presidential and national assembly
election, a move that was easily interpreted as calculated to inflame
wicked passion. The immediate reaction from some quarters was that there
was no attack in which 66 persons were killed in one fell swoop. 
 But, if, indeed, there were killings, the manner of disseminating the
information by el-Rufai was considered tendentious. It would have
amounted to gross mismanagement of the development to have declared, as
he did, that 66 Fulani men, women and children were killed. He would
have acted responsibly by simply announcing that 66 persons were killed.
By being imprudent on the matter, el-Rufai was indicted in the
deliberate plot to incite ethnic violence against the people of Maro
Gida and Iri communities in Kajuru Local Government at a period that
called for extreme circumspection.  That,
perhaps, prompted the responses by former Chairman of the National Human
Rights Commission (NHRC), Professor Chidi Odinkalu, and the Kaduna
State Chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) describing,
as it were, the announcement by el-Rufai as “intentional” and “a false
alarm”.   I have analysed the divergent
positions canvassed in the circumstance of the bogeyman typified by the
“Kajuru 66” and the inferences are quite clear: that, according to
el-Rufai, 66 Fulani men, women and children were killed in a coordinated
attack, which he wanted the entire world to believe happened in one
day; and, that to Odinkalu and the CAN in Kaduna, there was no such
single attack that resulted in the killing of 66 persons in a day. 
The seeming gap in the el-Rufai narrative, which conversely reinforces
the position of Odinkalu and the CAN, was the absence of documentary
evidence either by video or pictorial recording, showing the 66 bodies
of those killed or the atmospherics of where they were buried. That
being the case, the state government’s decision to involve the military
and police forces, purportedly, to simulate situational reports was
tantamount to make-believe in the absence of bodies to prove the claim
of massacre.     But to be sure, there were
other reports strung together from other sources that had actually
indicated that there were attacks in some communities in Kajuru Local
Government where between 10 and 15 persons were reportedly killed.
 These reports too did not benefit from the evidence of identified
bodies of the victims. Both scenarios should have been treated with
caution by all stakeholders, knowing full well that killings or actions
that assume the garb of genocidal attacks have the potential of
instigating reprisals.        Indeed, the
counter narrative by Odinkalu and the Kaduna CAN was to dismantle the
veritable bugaboo and the obvious mischief that were writ large in
el-Rufai’s statement with regard to his specific claim that 66 Fulani
men, women and children were killed.  The argument by those who opposed
el-Rufai’s gambit stemmed principally from, one, his unrestrained
disposition to introduce ethnic slant into what was even considered
fictitious; and, two, his seeming deliberate act of inciting reprisal
attacks.   el-Rufai had visited Ungwar
Barde, one of the affected communities, in company with the General
Officer Commanding One Division of the Nigerian Army, Major General
Faruk Yahaya, and the State Police Commissioner, Ahmad Rahman. Yahaya
had said that 37 of the victims were slaughtered and buried at a river
bank.  The Police Commissioner said that six persons had been arrested
in connection with the incident and would be charged to court. 
But since there are now calls from different quarters to investigate
the claim that 66 persons were killed, it would be apposite for the
state government to prove that Governor el-Rufai’s claim was not a mere
bugaboo or bogey to instill fear into the people and incite those who
allegedly lost their loved ones to violent reprisal attacks in the
calculated plot to cause serious bedlam about the time of a critical
election.  It would be quite interesting to
discover that the positions of Odinkalu and the Kaduna State CAN could
not stand the outcome of the investigation. But then, the National
Emergency Management Agency, a federal government agency, would also
suffer the same fate because it shared Odinkalu and the CAN’s position.
The agency’s northwest zonal coordinator, Ishaya Chonoko, had reportedly
said that those responsible for the report of the killings in Kajuru
wanted to take advantage of the election to incite violence.         
In fact, there are suggestions in some quarters in the state that
el-Rufai, who is seeking re-election might have deliberately embarked on
this scaremongering with a view to discounting the voter
population/electoral base in Kajuru, knowing full well that it is the
stronghold of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Although,
this is a moot point, yet, it reinforces the issues at stake. 
 Indeed, some watchers of the development in Kaduna State, especially
Odinkalu, have argued, overall, that el-Rufai’s objective was, perhaps,
to raise tension as part of the larger plot, involving pockets of
coordinated acts of sabotage set off on the eve of the presidential and
National Assembly election, to put the nation on edge, threaten,
undermine and imperil the electoral process. This is just a supposition.
   But, then, who in terms of political and
electoral capital would have benefitted from the situation in Kajuru
Local Government if the seeming mismanagement of the crisis situation
had snowballed into further conflagration?  Of course, the answer to the
question, about who the programmed beneficiary of the convoluted
situation and the possible consequent compromised electoral process
would have been, is blowing in the wind.    •Ojeifo contributed this piece from Abuja via ojwonderngr@yahoo.com