By Suleiman Shehu Ibadan – The Court of Appeal sitting in Ibadan on Tuesday reserved judgment in an appeal against a 15 years  jail sentence handed down on one Mukaila Amodu who was convicted for manslaughter. The three-man panel of Justices led  by Justice Jimi Bada  reserved
judgment after listening to the submissions  of counsel to the
respondent and appellant. Other members of the panel include Justice Haruna Tsammani and Justice Olufunmilayo Ojo. “ The judgment in this case is reserved  and judgment date will be
communicated to the counsel as soon as the judgment is ready,’’ Bada
said. Earlier in his argument, the counsel to the Appellant, Mr Dada
Awosika, told the court that the appeal was against the judgment of an
Abeokuta High Court delivered on June 26, 2014. Awosika said the 15 years sentence handed to  his client by the lower
court was not proportionate with the offence leveled against him. He said that his client and the deceased were a couple and had lived
for over 10 years with three children  before the incident that led to
the death of the wife as a result of an argument between the duo. “My lord, an argument occurred between the couple when the wife,
Kemi, accused the husband of removing N100 from the proceeds of  cocoa
and the wife hit the husband with hot fire wood on the head. “The husband retaliated by slapping the wife and this led to further argument which resulted in the wife being  hospitalised. “The wife spent 10 days at the hospital with the hospital bill being paid by the husband. “When the doctor asked  of more money which the husband could not get
, the doctor told him to take his wife home and she died three days
after her discharge from the hospital,’’ Awosika said. He said that the father of the deceased later brought the police to arrest the husband after the incident. The counsel told the court that the charge against his client should
be assault and not manslaughter as charged and urged the court to set
aside the judgment of the lower court. The counsel to the respondent, Mr Otenghbun Ebose, told the court
that he agreed with the appellant’s counsel that the sentence handed
down was not proportional to the offence. Ebose said that the role of the prosecutor was not to get conviction
at  all cost, adding that he was conceding to the appellant’s counsel
that justice was not properly done. He said he was leaving the judgment to the discretion of the court. By NAN An Isheri Magistrates' Court in Lagos on Friday remanded a man who allegedly defrauded… By NAN An Isheri Magistrates' Court in Lagos on Friday remanded a man who allegedly defrauded… By Pulse Those who think that celebrity marriages do not last should borrow a leaf…