By Olasunkanmi Onifade  Abuja – The Federal Government has inaugurated the newly constituted members of the steering committee for the Nigeria for Women Project (NFWP). The Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Hajiya Aisha
Abubakar, who inaugurated the committee in Abuja with the support of
World Bank, said the project would be carried out in six pilot states. The states includes Abuja, Edo, Kebbi, Taraba, Niger and Ogun. “It was against these varying problems impacting negatively on our
women that the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development
put forward a request to the World Bank. “The NFWP with an objective to supporting improved livelihood for
women in targeted areas of Nigeria which was formally approved by the
Federal Executive Council on the Dec. 12, 2018,” she said. The Minister said the project was proposed to demonstrate the impact
of a multi-dimensional and a medium to long term approach to overcome
the main institutional and market failures limiting women’s outcome in
Nigeria. “The proposed project intends to achieve this by implementing, across
multiple local contexts across Nigeria, approaches that have been
proven to contribute to women’s economic empowerment. “The four project components are building social capital, livelihood
support, innovation and partnerships and project management, monitoring,
evaluation and learning,” she said. Abubakar said the steering committee for the Nigeria For Women
Project is part of ongoing efforts towards the provision of a
comprehensive solution to the menace affecting women especially
livelihood issue. “I can assure you that this government is determined to mitigate this
and this eminent team led by my humble self to see through that the
project objectives and targets embedded in the Project Appraisal
Document and other projects documents to be developed. “Members would be given copies of the project Appraisal documents and
subsequent documents that will be developed in line with the project
implementation. “I want to charge the committee to go out there and knock on the
doors of all hearts and institutions in a determined and focused way,”
she said. Earlier, the National Project Coordinator, NFWP, Mrs Friya Bulus,
said a total of 324,000 women including 21,300 women affinity groups
would benefit from the project in the six pilot states of Abia, Edo,
Kebbi, Niger, Ogun and Taraba. The Commissioner of Women Affairs for Edo, Mrs Magdalene Ohenhen,
appreciated the effort of the Federal Government and World Bank, saying
the project will be a life changing for those at the rural communities.
(NAN)