By Chijioke Okoronkwo Abuja – The Northern Forum of Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON), has expressed support for the candidacy of President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2019 presidential election. Laolu Akande, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and
Publicity, Office of the Vice President, in a statement on Thursday in
Abuja, said ALGON’s endorsement was received by Vice President Yemi
Osinbajo. Osinbajo, who represented Buhari, received the endorsement from the leadership of the forum on Wednesday. The vice president said that the forthcoming presidential election
was an opportunity for Nigerians to endorse and validate the activities
of the Buhari presidency. “We see the election as an opportunity for Nigerians to endorse and validate all we have done. “ We are very confident that the Almighty God has seen the honesty
and integrity that Mr President has brought to bear on the nation, and
that would be rewarded,” he said. Osinbajo expressed immense gratitude to the forum for the gesture. Mr Mohammed Ali, Chairman of ALGON, Northern Forum, who led the
delegation, said the forum was impressed by the Buhari administration’s
commitment to the rule of law. Ali said that ALGON was delighted by the Federal Government’s support for local government autonomy. He said the forum’s endorsement was borne out of the successful performance of the administration in the last three years. “We will mobilse to support the Buhari/Osinbajo ticket; and you are going to win the election by the grace of God, ‘’ Ali said. On his part, Mr Mohammed Abubakar, the Kaduna State ALGON Chairman,
reaffirmed the group’s support, saying that Buhari’s administration had
recorded tremendous achievements in the areas of security, economic
diversification, among others. He recalled how the Federal Government helped in settling backlogs of
workers salary in several states and local government areas of the
country. Abubakar also cited the reduction in the price of fertilizers and availability to farmers. The ALGON delegation urged the Buhari administration to continue to
press for local government autonomy after winning the second term
election.