By Okeoghene Akubuike Abuja – The Federal Government has budgeted N100million to boost the National Library of Nigeria’s (NLN) Readership Promotion Campaign, Prof. Lenrie Aina, the National Librarian, has said. Aina, who spoke in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)
on Tuesday in Abuja, said the NLN was extending the campaign to motor
parks across the country. He said that government was showing interest in the programme as it
increased the budget for the campaign from N65million in 2018 to
N100million for 2019. Aina said that the main objective of the campaign was to ensure that all Nigerians imbibe the reading culture. He said the 2018 campaign was targeted at pregnant women, because
research had proved that expectant mothers had communication with the
unborn child, and going through them, one could imbibe the reading
culture in the child right from pregnancy. ”We intend to still continue to target school children, both primary
and secondary, and pregnant women. But this year we want to extend it to
motor parks across the country. “We plan to have a meeting with the  Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC)
and the Association of Transport Workers. Many people patronise motor
parks; we have the drivers, conductors and passengers. “Most times when the passengers are travelling, they may have to stay
three, four hours expecting more passengers to fill up the vehicle;
during this time what are they doing, and because Nigeria is an oral
society, they will just be talking and shouting. “So we want to encourage them to use this period to read something,
anything, even the drivers, the conductors can read books on road
safety. Why do you tell people to read, it is to gain knowledge. “So we want to also stimulate the interest of people in the motor
parks too, we are going to buy relevant books, when we go to FRSC, we
will ask them to suggest books we can buy,” he said. The national librarian added that the National Library was also going
to continue its collaboration with the NYSC, to help to improve the
reading culture among Nigerians. According to him, we contacted the DG, NYSC in 2018 to involve corps
members in helping to promote reading culture in Nigeria because of
their wide reach. Aina said the corps members were expected to introduce book reading
clubs wherever they find themselves, which would be supported and funded
by the National Library