Ilorin – The Federal Government says the social media report on the death of the abducted Dapchi school girl, Leah Sharibu, is fake and ploy by political opposition to tarnish the Administration’s image ahead of the general elections. The Minister of Information and
Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, gave the government’s position at a media
briefing on Sunday in Ilorin. He described as ‘absolute fake’ the report that Sharibu had died in captivity. The minister said the rumour of
Sharibu’s death, which surfaced just a few days to the presidential
election, was another ploy by the political opposition to exploit
primordial sentiments ahead of the polls. “It is part of the opposition’s
strategies to throw everything at the administration and at the
President. I think every day they are realising the hopelessness of
their position. “Every day they are amazed by the
support Mr President is receiving from every part of the country and
they have decided that they are going to spread falsehood. ‘‘They have also decided to inflame
passion and make this election a Muslim-Christian affair or North-South
affair, but people are not listening to them,” he said. The minister said that ahead of the
Monday’s presidential campaign rally in Ilorin, the All Progressives
Congress (APC) has put everything in place to ensure that the visit of
President Muhammadu Buhari is a huge success. “The party has been meeting in the last couple of days to ensure that the President’s visit is very successful. ‘‘We have watched the rallies in many parts of the country and we want to assure Mr. President that
our rally in terms of numbers, quality of people, entertainment and colour will rank among the best,” he said. He said the crowd that will come out to receive the President will be organic as the party does not engage in renting crowds. Mohammed appealed to security
agencies to create a level playing field for all the contestants in the
election to allow the people to freely exercise their franchise. He declared that those involved in legitimate activities have nothing to fear. The minister described the protest
in some circles over the redeployment of Police Commissioners across the
country as the handiwork of the opposition. Specifically, he said the opposition was working to discredit the police and the
Independent National Electoral Commission ahead of the general elections.