…Alerts That
Buhari, APC Are Seeking To Alter Results By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) –  Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has charged the
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to immediately announce
results as delivered from the polling units and declare the people’s candidate,
Atiku Abubakar, the winner of the February 23 Presidential election. According to the party,  its position is predicated on clear and
verifiable results across the nation, showing that Atiku Abubakar is in clear
lead both in spread and total number of votes cast. The party disclosed this on Sunday in a statement by National
Publicity Secretary And Director, Media & Publicity,PDP Presidential
Campaign Organization, Kola Ologbondiyan sent to Sundaiat Post. The statement reads: “Intelligence available to us is that INEC is delaying the
announcement of results following directives by the Buhari Presidency and the
All Progressives Congress (APC), which are bent on altering the figures from
the polling centers and allocate fictitious figures for President Muhammadu
Buhari, particularly in northern states. “Curiously, INEC server is now shut down, results are no
more being transmitted and the reason is to enable the APC to inflate figures
from six designated states. “We call on international observers and election monitors to
insist on a transparent process of transmission of results and the monitoring
thereof. “We already have reports of how APC governors in the
northern states have been making desperate effort to tamper with the results of
the elections in their respective states with the view to award conjured votes
to President Buhari. “In Kogi state, Governor Yahaya Bello has been making
frantic moves to change results to suit APC’s intent and purposes as against
the wishes of the people, expressly delivered at the polls. “Nigerians already know how the Minister of Transportation
and the Director-General of the Buhari Campaign, Rotimi Amaechi, used the
military to hold an INEC official in River state, Mrs. Mary Efeturi, hostage
and insisted that she will not be released until she alters the results in favour
of President Buhari “The PDP calls on INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu to
note that in this age of Information Communication Technology, Nigerians
already have the results as delivered at the polling centers and any attempt to
alter any figure will be faced with vehement resistance. “In delaying the announcement of the results, Prof. Mahmood
Yakubu is allowing the APC to turn him into a villain and directly pitching him
against the people. He should therefore extricate himself from the rejected APC
and be on the side of the people, by immediately announcing the results as
already delivered at the polling units and declare, the people’s candidate,
Atiku Abubakar, the winner. “Anything short of this is not acceptable to Nigerians, who
had already expressed their wishes and aspiration at the polls.