Singapore, – Oil prices fell on Thursday after U.S. crude inventories rose and the country’s production held at record levels, but OPEC-led supply cuts and Washington’s sanctions against Venezuela supported markets. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures were at $53.66 per
barrel at 0744 GMT, down 35 cents, or 0.7 per cent, from their last
settlement. International Brent crude oil futures fell 39 cents, or 0.6 per cent, to $62.30 per barrel. U.S. crude oil inventories climbed by 1.3 million barrels in the week
that ended Feb. 1 to 447.21 million barrels, data from the Energy
Information Administration (EIA) showed on Wednesday. Meanwhile, average weekly U.S. crude oil production remained at the
record 11.9 million barrels per day (bpd) it reached in late 2018. The U.S. is currently the world’s largest oil producer, ahead of traditional top suppliers Russia and Saudi Arabia. There are also concerns that an economic slowdown could soon weigh on
growth in fuel demand, with German industrial output unexpectedly
falling in December for the fourth consecutive month. Notwithstanding the overall rise in U.S. supply, traders were
watching how long a partial closure of the Keystone oil pipeline would
last after the discovery of a possible leak in the area of St Louis,
Missouri. Providing global markets with price support are supply cuts led by
the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) aimed at
tightening the market. “The key supply story remains the ongoing OPEC production cuts,” U.S. bank Goldman Sachs said on Wednesday. Meanwhile, U.S. sanctions against Venezuela’s oil industry are
expected to freeze sales proceeds of Venezuelan crude exports to the
U.S. “Around a third of Venezuela’s exports head to the U.S. As such, we
expect Venezuelan exports to quickly fall by 300,000 barrels per day
(bpd) to around 700,000 bpd,” ANZ bank said on Thursday. “The risks are rising that this political standoff will deepen the
fall in output as funds dry up and mass defection of workers
accelerates.” Washington said last week that after April 28 foreign companies would
not be able to conduct business with Venezuelan state-run oil firm
PDVSA using the U.S. financial system, effectively banning them from
paying in U.S. dollars. “The ban … dramatically ramps up the sanctions to a global level and
could potentially result in a loss of most Venezuelan output,” French
bank Societe Generale said in a note published on Wednesday