By Peter Uwumarogie Gombe – Vendors of transistor radio sets and newspapers in Gombe are enjoying increased patronage following the victory of  President Muhammadu Buhari in the  presidential poll. Two of the vendors said they were making good sales as more residents
of the state capital were buying newspapers and radio sets to keep
abreast of political developments in the country. Buhari, the candidate of All Progressives Congress, was re-elected
with a score of 15,191,847 votes and defeated 72 other candidates,
including the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar,
who scored 11, 255,978 votes. Malam Ibrahim Usman, a newspaper vendor, told News Agency of Nigeria
(NAN) that since the announcement of the election result more people
were patronising his stand in order to get the latest political news. Usman said: “ the victory of President Buhari is good for business as
more persons are looking forward to reading more unfolding stories on
the victory. “Even i here n Gombe, the celebration is like a carnival and more
people are buying newspapers just to see the pictures of Buhari and read
more about the happenings around Nigeria. “ I wish elections were everyday so we can make more money. I can
tell you I have never made this kind of money after such declaration in
my years of doing this business.’’ Malam Garba Kawu, a radio set vendor in Gombe Main Market, said he
had not enjoyed so much patronage as he had done since the eve of the
presidential and National Assembly elections with average sale of eight
sets per day. “The way people have patronised me since Feb. 22 is frightening. On
average, I sell eight transistor radios per day. Before now, I managed
to sell five weekly which even dropped in some weeks,’’ he said. A trader, Malam Muhammadu Bello, said he bought three transistor
radio sets for his household before the elections so as to get election
updates. He added that power supply was  poor and as such his family members relied on battery-powered radio sets to listen to news. APC - 402, 961 PDP - 138, 484 APC - 285, 894 PDP - 218, 207 