By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post)
– The People’s Democratic Party, has said that President Muhammadu Buhari and
his party, All Progressives Congress cannot succeed in rigging the forth coming
election as Nigeria is bigger than them as history has shown. The party disclosed
this on Sunday in a statement signed by the National Publicity Secretary And Director, Media
& Publicity, PDP Presidential Campaign Organization, Kola Ologbondiyan sent
to Sundiata Post. The statement reads
in full: Gentlemen of the
press, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has called you up today to announce
to President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) that
Nigeria is bigger than them and that there is no way Nigerians will allow them
to rig the 2019 general elections or achieve their self-succession plan. Our history as a
nation has amply shown that no individual leader, no matter the authority
wielded, has ever succeeded, at any point in time, in subduing the spirit of
our nation or place our people under a siege and not even this strange recourse
to importation of mercenaries into our country can change that reality The world can recall
how certain leaders in the past attempted to subvert our constitutional
democracy, arrogate excessive powers to themselves and how they failed in the
face of the Nigerian spirit. Today, that Nigerian
spirit, with which we won our democracy and nurtured it to this stage, is being
assailed by the APC and the Buhari Presidency with their unrelenting
constitutional breaches, attacks on our democratic institutions, violation of
human rights, siege on our electoral system and opening of our territorial
borders to mercenaries, all in the bid to subdue our citizenry and achieve a
self- succession plan, having realized that there is no way they can win in a
free, fair and peaceful election. There is a ferocious
attempt to take away our liberty as a people. There is total clampdown, arrest
and detention of dissenting voices; invasion of media houses, manhandling and
illegal detention of journalists by state forces have become the order of the
day; but all these will not break the Nigerian spirit. Our nation will never
succumb to Buhari Presidency’s assault on our National Assembly, the attack on
our judiciary and besieging of the Independent National Electoral Commission
(INEC) where President Buhari’s relation is being foisted as the head of the collation
center. Nigerians have
decided to vote out President Buhari, come February 16, and no amount of
intimidation, clampdown and harassment can change that resolve. It has become
manifest that compatriots, irrespective of creed, ethnicity and political
leanings, are today extremely eager to vote out the Buhari Presidency which,
out of sheer incompetence, has wrecked our once robust economy and brought so
much poverty, hunger, pain and anguish to Nigerians, once reputed as the
happiest people in the world. The Buhari Presidency
and the APC have come to the stark reality that the influences on which they
rode to power in 2015 no longer avail. They have come to the moment of truth
that Nigerians have seen through their lies, propaganda, false promises, beguilements
and holier-than-thou posturing and are now poised to take back their country at
the polls. Only last week, the
Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU), after consideration of all factors,
reinforced the global unanimity and affirmation by various credible and
independent bodies within and outside Nigeria, including the Afenifere, the
Ohaneze Ndigbo, the Northern Elders’ Forum, the Pan Niger Delta Forum, the
Middle Belt Forum, among several others, that 
Atiku Abubakar will win the February 16, Presidential election, having
secured the overwhelming support of Nigerians across the board. Today, the APC and
the Buhari Presidency have become uncontrollably feverish over the overwhelming
acceptance gained by Atiku Abubakar in all the geo-political zones, particularly
in the North West states of Sokoto, Kebbi, Zamfara, Kano, Katsina, Kaduna and
Jigawa states, hitherto considered as President Buhari’s political stronghold. Having lost genuine
followership in the North West, the North Central, the North East and a greater
part of the South West, all of which gave them a ride to victory in 2015, and
having no prospects in the South East and South South, the APC and the Buhari
Presidency are now seeking ways to derail our electoral process. This accounts for the
manipulations in INEC and the smuggling in of mercenaries from Niger Republic
to populate APC rallies, ostensibly to unleash them on our nation immediately
it is clear that President Buhari is losing at the polls. However, the PDP
wants President Buhari to note that Nigeria will not fall. Our country, as a
nation of over 200 million resilient men and women, is bigger than President
Buhari as well as the APC and would resist all anti-democratic forces being
unleashed against our democratic order. Nigerians have chosen
democracy with its tenets, as a way of life, including justice and
constitutional freedom it offers the citizens to determine who their leaders
should be at any given time, and nobody, not even President Buhari, can take
away this freedom and rights, under any circumstance whatsoever. Nigerians know how
the PDP restored, nurtured and allowed our democracy to thrive to the extent
that it was possible for the opposition to win in a general election with
President Buhari as the major beneficiary. The PDP allowed a free and fair
election, respected the will of the people and handed over power to President
Buhari, without any shenanigans that would have denied him victory. Now that Nigerians
are determined to vote out President Buhari from office due to his
incompetence, divisiveness, executive high-handedness and corruption, he must
not allow his ambition to set our nation on fire. We therefore urge
President Buhari to avail his mind to accept his imminent defeat when it
eventually comes on February 16. President Buhari
should know that Nigerians have chosen Atiku Abubakar as their next President
to return our nation to the path of national cohesion and economic prosperity.
This national consensus is bigger than President Buhari or any other Nigerian
for that matter. Signed: Kola Ologbondiyan National Publicity
Secretary And Director, Media &
Publicity PDP Presidential
Campaign Organization