By Chibuike Nwabuko Port Harcourt (Sundiata Post) – Accreditation and voting has gradually commenced in several wards and units in Port Harcourt City local government area of Rivers State. However, materials are yet to get to parts of the local government area, including Ward 5, 6 and 7. According to Leadership, most of the wards an polling units in Rumuwoji community in Diobu area of Port Harcourt, the exercise started in earnest at about 9;50 am. But, almost all the wards and units in Old Port Harcourt Township area of the local government area, were yet to receive election materials as at 9:50 am. A visit to the Registration Area Centre (RAC) for Ward 5, 6 and 7, located at Town School, Moscow Road, Port Harcourt, materials were yet to leave the centre. Speaking to newsmen, the agent of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Aminayanasam Kuluma-Joe, attributed the delay in the movement of the materials to challenges being faced by officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Kuluma-Joe said: “We are having some challenges the INEC officials are trying to put this in place so that we can get to our units. As you can see all the parties involved are here. Their agents are here too. “We are putting heads together to see how we can move these materials to all the units. That is what is causing the delay for now. “We are having other challenges about some of them that don’t even know how to use the card reader. So, INEC officials are trying to lecture them on how to use it.” Speaking to newsmen also, agent of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mathew Osika, said: “No problems for now. INEC is still sorting out materials, giving the Presiding Officers and Assistant Presiding Officers materials for each unit in the various wards. “The Police is also on ground giving security cover. Various political parties are fully represented. “There is no problem for now though most people are worried because time is of essence. Materials have not been moved to the wards but I think in no long a time they will move to the wards.” 1 Source: Leadership