THERE IS A DIFFERENCE BETWEEN BUHARI AND ATIKU, SO STOP SAYING OTHERWISE Since we have one more week before the election, why not rant some more? And rant I shall. So, one of the talking points of Buharists who are too embarrassed to identify with their candidate, Buharists who want to split the anti-Buhari vote and give a default victory to their man, and third party supporters who are campaigning for their candidates is to engage in the false equivalence of saying there is no difference between Buhari and Atiku. That is not only a lie, it is a dishonest statement to make. Each man has strengths and weaknesses, but they absolutely do not share the same weaknesses and strengths, so there is indeed a world of difference between them that an undecided voter can use to contrast them. I respect people for campaigning for their candidates. I especially respect third party supporters like myself who are trying to engineer a departure from the APC-PDP status quo and bring about a new political paradigm. I also respect the Atikulated crowd, whose votes are more anti-Buhari than pro-Atiku. I have one thing in common with them: we both want to get rid of Buhari. The president for me is a clear and present danger to the republic, an existential threat to Nigeria. Atiku may institutionalize kleptocracy and cronyism, but even his worst adversaries cannot claim that he poses a threat to Nigeria’s survival or would trigger state collapse. You have to be alive and have a country before you can worry about corruption. Atiku would keep Nigeria alive even if the country remains dysfunctional. Buhari could terminate it. That is a real difference. Therefore, to say there is no difference between Buhari and Atiku is to stretch the truth. That claim is the essence of a question my interlocutor and brother, Andy Kaggwa Obeya, posed this morning when he asked rhetorically whether there is a difference between Buhari and Atiku. My answer was that there is–many differences, actually. I reproduce an expanded version of it below. There is a difference between the two men if you’re objective and do not support either of them. Atiku is not and has never been a nepotist. Even his worst enemies cannot accuse him of that. Atiku will not allow a cabal to control him. Atiku is his own man. Atiku is not a fanatic in religious matters. Atiku is intellectually curious and is definitely a better thinker, learner, and listener than Buhari. Atiku respects expertise and courts people with expertise and competence, knowing his own limitations. Atiku is inclusive and cosmopolitan and knows how to work with people from all over the country. He is at home with everybody regardless of religion, ethnicity, or region. Atiku does not and will not call Nigerian youths lazy or say that a woman’s place is in the other room. Atiku will not tell mourning victims of armed herdsmen in Taraba and Benue to go and live in peace with their neighbors or that more people have been killed in Zamfara than in the two states put together. Atiku will not retain the same service chiefs despite deteriorating insecurity and setbacks in the anti-insurgency efforts, or remain aloof to killings and kidnappings all over the country as his security chiefs fail to stem the menace. He will not fail to issue a statement of empathy or visit the crisis spots until embarrassed into doing so when people are mowed down by armed herdsmen and bandits. Atiku is more economically sound, has a better understanding of how a modern economy works, will not implement an economy-killing, archaic vision of economic nationalism, and will defer to economic experts rather than dictate terms to them. Atiku is much better well spoken and is both coherent and lucid. Atiku will not endorse presidential discrimination by proclaiming a 97/5 percent theory. Atiku will not insult the Southeast by saying “what do the Igbo’s want?”. Buhari is not free of the corruption stain. He has disappointed Nigerians and largely reneged on his pledge to fight corruption, but he remains relatively better than Atiku in matters of ethics and integrity. That is a difference. I can go on and on with many more examples of differences between the two men. To say there is no difference between Atiku and Buhari is not only Buharist propaganda; it is dishonest, and Buharists know it. Support who you want to support and campaign for them but don’t lie that there is no contrast between the two main candidates. There are many. If corruption is your main issue in this election then Buhari is your man, anti-corruption duplicity and all. However, if, like most Nigerians, poverty, hardship, incompetence, insecurity, and divisiveness are your top issues, Atiku is by far the superior choice. To say the two men are the same and that there is no difference between them is patently false. The only things Buhari and Atiku have in common is that they’re both old men and that neither of them is capable of transforming Nigeria and its politics.