By Mohammed Lawal Zaria – Alhaji Aliyu Idris-Ibrahim, Council Chairman, Zaria Local Government of Kaduna State on Sunday says re-electing President Muhammadu Buhari would guarantee brighter future for Nigeria. Idris-Ibrahim made the observation during the presentation of
certificates to cotractors awarded infrastructure projects in Tudun Wada
ward of Zaria. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that community leaders in
each unit were mobilised by the council to monitor the execution of the
projects to ensure compliance to set standards. The council boss stressed the need for electorates to give President
Buhari a second tenure to enable him transform the country for a
brighter future. According to him, Buhari  administration has recorded successes in
areas  of security, fighting corruption and diversifying the economy
through agriculture. The council chairman also stressed the need for the electorate to
re-elect Gov. Nasiru El-Rufa’i to continue his laudable programmes
across the state. Idris-Ibrahim cautioned against attacks on leaders, hate speech and the use of sentiments in the name of campaign. “Our religion tells us to pray for our leaders, support them and
encourage them where they do the right thing and advise them where they
go wrong not uttering bad words not to talk of insulting them. “In my own little knowledge, I have never seen a place in Islam where
if a leader is doing well and ask for continuity will be turned down. “Therefore, we have no option than to support their continuity, we
must tell our children, our wives, brothers and sisters to come out en
mass to give Presdient Buhari, Gov. El-Rufa’i and all other APC
contestants block votes,” he pleaded. In his speech, the APC Zonal Chairman, Northen Kaduna Senatorial
District, Alhaji Hussaini Zaria appreciated the council chairman for
embarking on developmental projects. He said the party was proud to have him as a council chairman in view
of his foresight, commitment and desire to lift the local government to
greater heights. Alhaji Abdu Ringo, the APC Chairman, Zaria local government also
lauded the gigantic efforts of the council chairman in touching the
lives of citizens of the area. Ringo, who was represented by the Vice Chairman, Alhaji Buhari
Musa-Bizara said in the history of local governments in Kaduna state, no
council had ever award a contract worth N1 billion  except  Zaria under
the present chairman. “The member representing Zaria federal constituency also deserves a
National Merit Award considering his track records in the House of
Representatives.” In their remarks, some community leaders in the area commended the chairman for executing people oriented projects. They pledged to give Buhari and APC the necessary support to succeed in the upcoming general elections. NAN reports that the projects include; construction of culverts,
drainages and channels, repair of boreholes, electrification and
renovation of primary schools, among others.