By Femi Ogunshola Omu-Aran – The National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), the N-power volunteers and other artisans in Omu-aran, Kwara, have endorsed Candidates of All Progressives Congress (APC) in the forthcoming general elections. They made the commitment when they visited Hon. Abdul-Raheem Olawuyi,
representing Irepodun/Isin/Oke-ero Federal Constituency in the House of
Representatives in Omu-Aran, on Saturday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Omu-Aran is the headquarters of Irepodun Local Government Area of the state. Tajudeen Oladipupo, Chairman of NURTW in Omu-Aran, said they were
making the endorsement because of the need to secure the future of their
children. Oladipupo explained that he had no doubt that the APC administration
had what it took to actualise their aspirations, adding that they were
convinced with the party’s manifesto. “We have never voted APC, but now we are going to vote the party to
have a change of government, because we believe in the party’s
manifesto,’’ he said. Mr Dayo Afolayan, the Financial Secretary of the union, said things
were beginning to change for better under the APC-led administration. He said the visible impact the party had made in the lives of
citizens had informed the various groups’ support for the party to
clinch victory in the coming general elections. Mr Deji Adeoti, the leader of the N-Power volunteers in the area,
commended the Federal Government for the programme, noting that it had
lifted beneficiaries from the shackle of extreme poverty. “Some of us have not gotten a job for the past 8 years after
graduation, but this N-Power programme has provided the opportunity for
us to earn a living,’’ Adeoti said. Olawuyi, who expressed delight over the solidarity visit, said that
the APC remained the only political party that had workable plans for
the people. He said President Muhammadu Buhari had developed a template to take
Nigerians out of poverty, promising there would be continuity and
sustainability of all the empowerment programmes of the APC if Buhari
was returned as president. He also assured members of the NURTW that an APC government in the
state would invest on mass transit services to reduce pressure on
transport operators and commuters.