By Mohammad Tijjani Kaduna – No fewer than 106 officers and men of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF)graduated from the Very Important Personality Protection course 3, (VIP ) on Friday in Kaduna. The Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshall Sadiq Abubakar made this known
during the graduation ceremony held at the Regiment Training Center
(RTC) NAF base in Kaduna. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) report that the Air Chief was
represented by AVM Charles Ohwo Director Operation, NAF headquarters. Abubakar said the regularity of turning out vital human resources was
evident of the centre’s commitment for excellence in developing ground
combat human capacity for the Air Force. “To the graduates, I must commend your resilience, tenacity and
perseverance in undergoing this course, no doubt your training is
rigorous nature. “This is deliberate, because the course is intended to enhance your
physical skills and intellectual abilities to provide adequate
protection of our national critical infrastructure and human assets. He noted that, the force protection has become more compelling now
than ever, given the complexity of contemporary security challenges that
is facing the nation. “I therefore urge you to live up to the ideals of your training in
your areas of deployment, you must be prepared to do your best in all
circumstances as your future assignment will require courage, good
judgement and sacrifices. ” I am happy to note that our efforts to build an efficient force structure are becoming more evident”, he said. Abubakar charged the graduates to be innovative and make judicious
use of resources that will be put at their disposal from time to time. He urged all personnel to remain dedicated to their duties and
conduct themselves in manner consistent with NAF core values and
services. “As we prepare for the forthcoming general elections, I want to
re-affirm that as members of the armed forces, we must continue to
remain apolitical in the discharge of our constitutional
responsibilities. “We assure Mr President of our unalloyed loyalty and reiterate our abiding faith in democracy. “he said. Earlier the commandant, RTC, Wing Cmdr Stephen Sekegor ,said the VIP
protection course was designed to ensure and give adequate protection to
dignitaries against attack from disgruntled element, terrorist and
extremists. Sekegor said the current NAF administration was being mindful of
contemporary security challenges, since assumptions of office and has
deliberately pursued the capacity building drive of NAF Regiment
Specialty. (NAN)