By Salisu Sani-Idris Abuja – International Centre for Islamic Culture and Education in partnership with the Embassy of the United Arab Emirate, on Saturday offered free medical service to 1000 destitute at Karu Village in Abuja Municipal Area Councils (AMAC). Addressing newsmen at the venue of
the medical outreach, Dr Kabir Kabo, Director-General of the Centre,
said the free medical services were part of annual activities of the
organisation. Kabo, represented by Alhaji Garba
Sani, Director of External Relations, Research and Consultancy of the
Centre, said the medical outreach would be extended to many communities
around Abuja metropolis. He said the centre had earlier
organised similar exercise in Deidei, Karmo, Kucigoro and other
communities within the FCT due to increasing demand for medical
assistance in the villages. “ We have been involved in a number
of charitable activities including medical outreach. We are here at the
Karu village central mosque to provide free medical support to the
community. “ We are targeting about 1000
patients but of course the demand is a lot more than that but we are
constrains by limited resources. “ We have less resource than the
demand. Our services are highly demanded by the less privilege so
wherever we go we have to leave some patients, “ he said. He disclosed that the centre
intended to reach out to other places to provide medical support to the
less privilege in the next three weeks. Kabo explained that the centre had a
volunteer medical team of doctors, nurses, pharmacies and other
supporting staff dedicated for the humanitarian intervention. The Centre’s Head of Medical Team,
Dr Amina Kumali, said the free medical service was for diabetic and
hypertensive patients as well as people suffering from peptic ulcer,
malaria and typhoid fever. “ So far what we have been
consulting patients with is usually hypertensive, diabetic and then most
commonly is the malaria which is very endemic here. “Although, we seen few patients
whose cases cannot be handle here so we refer them to General Hospital
where they will be investigated thoroughly before administering
medication,“ Kumali said. According to her, diabetic is on
increase because of lifestyle changes of eating too much of processed
foods and advised people to eat healthy meals. The Head of Karu village community,
Malam Abdullahi Gora, expressed gratitude to the Islamic centre for
coming to their aid, which according to him was happening for the first
time. “ This is a very commendable effort.
We appreciate your assistance because we have many people, who are sick
and cannot afford medical bills, “ he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)
reports that the International Centre for Islamic Culture and Education
was established in 2012 by some patriotic Nigerians to promote Islamic
culture and education. (NAN)