By Moji Eniola Ikeja – An Ikeja High Court will on April 18 rule on the admissibility of a report by the Department of State Services (DSS) to the Senate on Mr Ibrahim Magu, the Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Justice Doris Okuwobi
fixed the date on Thursday after entertaining arguments from counsel to
both Magu and the Sun newspaper which Magu sued for N6 billion for
alleged libel. Mr Charles Ewelunta, counsel to the Sun newspaper, while
cross-examining Mr Usman Zakari, an EFCC investigator, had sought to
tender in evidence, the DSS report on Magu. However, Magu’s counsel, Mr Wahab Shittu, objected to it on the grounds that it was not a Certified True Copy (CTC). “The report sought to be tendered purportedly emanated from the DSS,
in the hands of one Folashade Bello who purportedly signed the letter on
behalf of the director-general. “The report was purportedly addressed to the clerk of the Senate of
the Federal Republic of Nigeria; it is clear that it is a public
document not certified by the DSS or Senate, it is a worthless paper. “If the defendant is interested in relying on this letter, he should
have certified it in line with the provisions of the Evidence Act. “The defendant is not the proper custodian of the document; I urge my lord to mark it as rejected,” he said. Responding, Ewelunta said that the DSS report was admissible because it was relevant to the libel suit. He said: “The objection is completely misconceived; the determinant
of admissibility is relevance; custody has nothing to do with it. “The document we sought to tender is addressed to the clerk of the Senate and was copiously pleaded by the claimant. “The witness affirmed that he is aware of it, the method for which it was obtained would not affect admission. “Its existence has been affirmed, it has been frontloaded, the witness mentioned it, why are they afraid of it?” Earlier, Zakari, the Head of Intelligence and Special Operations Unit
of the EFCC, had told the court that an article published by the Sun
newspaper of March 25, 2017, and entitled “Magu Under Fresh Probe Over
Two Abuja Mansions’’, was damaging to the EFCC boss. While being led in evidence by Shittu, Zakari read aloud excerpts of
the publication and told the court: “When I read the publication, I was
shocked; it affected the way I felt about Mr Ibrahim Mustapha Magu. “I have worked with him for a long time, I know him both in official and private capacities. “The publication affected the perspective I had of him, because I had
always seen him as someone who is determined to perform with his best
ability in his government position.” NAN reports that the acting EFCC chairman is claiming N5 billion as
damages fron the Sun newspaper over its publication that alleged that
the DSS uncovered two houses in Maitama, Abuja, which were traced to his
wife. The EFCC boss is also demanding that the Sun newspaper should publish
an apology to him and retract the allegedly libelous publication. While giving evidence before the court on Dec. 17, 2018, Magu denied owning two houses in Mataima, Abuja. He had said: “The publication is totally false. Even if I have the money, I wouldn’t buy houses in Maitama. “They said the houses are located in the Darrubbe and Missouri, Maitama, and that they belong to my wife. “My wife Fatima Yakaka Magu, is a civil servant and cannot afford to buy houses in Maitama. “I am an international man, and the publication has damaged my
reputation. The name Magu does not end with me; the publication caused a
whole lot of trauma for my lineage.” By NAN An Isheri Magistrates' Court in Lagos on Friday remanded a man who allegedly defrauded… By NAN An Isheri Magistrates' Court in Lagos on Friday remanded a man who allegedly defrauded… JOHANNESBURG - Mozambique has filed a case in London’s High Court against Credit Suisse, according…