Brussels – The European Commission will take action against Poland if its government is harassing judges for consulting the European Court of Justice on the legality of Polish reforms. The commission first vice president Frans Timmermans said on Tuesday. Timmermans, responsible in the Commission for making sure European
Union countries observe the rule of law, was responding to a letter from
Poland’s biggest judge association Iustitia, which asked him to act. Iustitia urged Timmermans to sue the nationalist and eurosceptic
Polish government over the harassment of judges who questioned the
legality of the government’s judicial reforms, by asking the opinion of
the ECJ. “Every Polish judge is also a European judge. “So no one should interfere with the right of a judge to pose
questions to the European Court of Justice,’’ Timmermans told reporters
on entering a meeting of EU ministers who were to discuss Poland’s
observance of the rule of law. “If that is becoming something of a structural matter, if judges are
being faced with disciplinary measures because they ask questions to the
court in Luxembourg, then of course the Commission will have to act,’’
Timmermans said, without elaborating. The Polish government of the ruling Law and Justice (PiS) party has
been in conflict with the Commission for undermining the independence of
Poland’s courts since the start of 2016. Worried about the government flouting basic democratic standards in
the country of 38 million people, the Commission has launched an
unprecedented procedure on whether Poland is observing the rules of law,
which serves mainly as a means of political pressure. The procedure could lead to the loss of voting power in the EU for a government that does not observe the rule of law. Poland was the first ever to be put under that procedure, by the
European Commission for undermining the independence of the courts “Sadly, not much has changed and some things even have worsened,” Timmermans said. The EU has also launched a similar procedure against Hungary, where
the authoritarian rule of Prime Minister Viktor Orban is raising concern
in other EU countries. Brussels has also warned Romania to stop its push for influence over the judicial system. Iustitia, grouping one third of all Polish judges, wrote to
Timmermans to act against repressive disciplinary steps against judges
by the National Council of Judiciary. This is in which, under changes made by the PiS government, is now
appointed by politicians from the ruling PiS parliamentary majority. “The proceedings are usually initiated against judges who are active
in the field of defending the rule of law, among others by educational
actions, meetings with citizens, international activity. “Therefore, I appeal for referring Poland to the Court of Justice of
the European Union in connection with the regulations concerning the
disciplinary proceedings against judges,” ,’’ Iustitia head Krystian
Markiewicz wrote in the letter to Timmermans, seen by Reuters.
(Reuters/NAN)