By Ismaila Chafe Abuja – King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia has congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari on his re-election for a second term. In a telephone conversation with President Buhari on Thursday, the
Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques wished the Nigerian President success
and good health in his second term in office. Malam Garba Shehu, the President’s spokesman, who confirmed this
development in a statement in Abuja on Thursday, said the Saudi King
also extended good wishes of steady progress and prosperity to the
government and people of Nigeria. While expressing his appreciation to the King, President Buhari
affirmed his readiness to enhance aspects of cooperation between the two
countries in various fields. The presidential aide also disclosed that the Emir of Qatar Sheikh
Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani sent a cable of congratulations to President
Buhari on his re-election. The Emir wished the Nigerian President success and the Nigerian people further development and progress. Russian Ambassador to Nigeria, Alexey Shebarshin, also sent a congratulatory message, saying: ”I am honoured to extend my congratulations to you personally, Mr
President, and the people of Nigeria on the successful conduct of free,
transparent and credible Presidential and National Assembly elections on
Feb. 23, that will shape the destiny of this nation for the upcoming
four years and beyond.” While describing the elections as yet another substantial step
towards further strengthening of Nigerian democracy, the Russian
Ambassador wrote: ” It is my conviction that your decisive victory will
pave the way for yet stronger and more prosperous Nigeria that you will
be able to deliver on the people’s mandate. ” The Ambassador expressed the hope that the Nigerian President’s
second term in office would be associated with further enhancements of
bilateral cooperation and closer contacts between the two countries. UK Minister of State for Africa, Harriett Baldwin, said: ”I offer my
congratulations to President Buhari on securing a second term as the
Nigerian President. “The UK is a long-standing friend and partner of Nigeria and the
Nigerian people, and a stable and prosperous Nigeria benefits Africa and
the world. ” French Ministry for Europe and Foreign Affairs in its congratulatory
message said: “France congratulates President Muhammadu Buhari on his
re-election on Feb. 23. “It will continue to stand by Nigeria and to provide its full support
for the implementation of the country’s priorities, especially economic
diversification, job creation, counter terrorism and the fight against
corruption.” The statement also indicated that President Buhari had earlier
received congratulatory messages from Presidents Emmerson Mnangagwa of
Zimbabwe, Cyril Ramaphosa of South Africa and Uhuru Kenyatta of
Kenya.(NAN) By Ismaila Chafe Abuja - President Muhammadu Buhari has continued to receive congratulatory messages over… APC - 402, 961 PDP - 138, 484 APC - 285, 894 PDP - 218, 207