By Emmanuel Mogbede Abuja – The All Progressives Congress (APC) Women and Youth Presidential Campaign Team, has advised women not to use Henna, a local tattoo known as “lalle“ in Hausa, ahead of the elections. Hajia Mairo Almakura, Deputy Chairperson (North) of the team, gave
the advice on Saturday in Abuja, at a campaign rally tagged: “Walking
with Buhari to the Next Level’’ to canvass for votes for President
Muhammadu Buhari, in the Feb. 16, Presidential Election. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Lalle, commonly used in
Muslim dominated regions of Africa, is dried henna leaves mashed into
paste and used on the skin to create temporary tattoos. The paste, which is applied by local women who make substantial
earnings from it, especially during festivals and ceremonies, is seen as
part of the Islamic tradition and culture. Almakura, the wife of Gov. Tanko Al-Makura of Nasarawa State, said
the card reader machine might not be able to read the fingerprints of
women who apply it on their hands. Also speaking at the rally, wife of President Muhammadu Buhari,
Aisha, charged women and youths in the country to avoid violence before
during and after the coming elections, urging them to vote peacefully. Aisha, who heads the APC Women and Youth Presidential Campaign Team,
was represented at the rally by Dolapo, wife of Vice President Yemi
Osinbajo. “The mother of the nation said I should tell you to vote peacefully,
do not fight, vote for APC so that together, we can all move to the Next
Level,’’ she said. She also tasked electorate on staying behind at their polling units after voting to ensure that their votes counted. She particularly thanked Nigerian women and youths, for standing by the president since he assumed office. According to her, Buhari has proved to be a good man and deserves to be re-elected in the coming election slated for Feb. 16. She stressed that if the APC government was re-elected, Nigeria would
be taken to the Next Level of infrastructural development and economic
growth. Speaking at the event, Mr Solomon Dalung, Minister of Sports, said
the current security and economic challenges were not peculiar to the
Buhari-led administration. “Citizens of some countries are on the streets protesting hunger, so
the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), should not make an issue
out of this,“ Dalung said. He charged Nigerians to vote for Buhari in the coming election adding
that the APC-led Federal Government was doing everything possible to
fix the challenges and make Nigeria the envy of other nations.