 By Modupe Oremule and Olanrewaju Lagos – As downpour accompanied the much anticipated 4th Access Bank Lagos City Marathon, street traders had a field day as they lined up the streets to make brisk business. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the marathon which was ushered in by a downpour started around 6.25 a.m. with many traders already out to supply both the runners and the spectators’ needs. A petty trader, Adaeze Uchena, said she was out to supply the needs of the participants, adding that it had become a norm since the inception of the marathon for her to make brisk sale. “This marathon is a blessing to me because many of the spectators and runners always need one thing or the other. So, I deal with what they need. “I sell the basic refreshments that people will need and the rain means nothing if I can sell my wares,” she said. Suleiman Adamo, a local bread seller, said he came out knowing that some of the spectators would prefer hot tea and bread for breakfast. “The rain really helped my business because many of the passersby prefer to have something hot, so, tea and bread is the preferred option,” he said. Another petty trader, who simply want to be described as Mama Bose, said the marathon provided the once in a year opportunity above her normal sale. “I can confirm that sales during the marathon is quite different from normal day sales. Last year, I made almost triple the sale compared to ordinary days. “This is an event that has many people participating in it, so, the sale should be different from the normal. The only difference is that this event only comes once in a year,” she said. (NAN) The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the marathon which was ushered in by a downpour started around 6.25 a.m. with many traders already out to supply both the runners and the spectators’ needs. A petty trader, Adaeze Uchena, said she was out to supply the needs of the participants, adding that it had become a norm since the inception of the marathon for her to make brisk sale. “This marathon is a blessing to me because many of the spectators and runners always need one thing or the other. So, I deal with what they need. “I sell the basic refreshments that people will need and the rain means nothing if I can sell my wares,” she said. Suleiman Adamo, a local bread seller, said he came out knowing that some of the spectators would prefer hot tea and bread for breakfast. “The rain really helped my business because many of the passersby prefer to have something hot, so, tea and bread is the preferred option,” he said. Another petty trader, who simply want to be described as Mama Bose, said the marathon provided the once in a year opportunity above her normal sale. “I can confirm that sales during the marathon is quite different from normal day sales. Last year, I made almost triple the sale compared to ordinary days. “This is an event that has many people participating in it, so, the sale should be different from the normal. The only difference is that this event only comes once in a year,” she said. (NAN)