Abeokuta – President Muhammadu Buhari has restated his commitment to the fight against corruption if re-elected for a second term. Buhari said this at a presidential parley with monarchs in Abeokuta shortly after the All Progesssives Congress (APC) rally. According to him, his mission to the state is to remind the people of
Ogun where the country currently stands in the areas of security,
economy and the fight against  corruption. He noted that fighting corruption remained the most difficult task and  assured  that he would not relent on this. Also speaking, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo said he believed that the current  administration deserved a second term.
He reiterated the president’s resolve to tackle corruption, affirming
that it was  possible to build a country free of corruption. “Our country’s major problem is corruption. Our country is not short
of money or ideas but it is short of men of character to use the
resources judiciously,” he said. Osinbajo added that Buhari was the right person for the job “because
he has the right character; even his enemies agree to that.’’ “We must support him in the interest of our future and the future of our children,” Osinbajo added. Gov. Ibikunle Amosun,  in his remarks, thanked the president for putting Ogun  in the forefront of development in the country. He thanked the president for completing many moribund projects in the country. The governor  also thanked the president  for coming to the aid of
the state during the last flood that ravaged the state in July 2018. “We support President Buhari, not because we love him only, but because he’s a performing president. “Rehabilitation of the Lagos/Ibadan expressway directly affects our
state because 84.6 per cent of that road lies within the corridor of
Ogun State. “ When the road is completed, we’ll be beneficiaries  of that road. “Of all the roads that are being awarded, Ogun has 200km and
concerning flooding, the president is even in the process of giving us
money to make sure we don’t experience flood again,” he said. Amosun urged the monarchs to prevail on their subjects to return Buhari’s favours by voting massively for him on Saturday. Oba Aremu Gbadebo, the Alake and paramount ruler of Egbaland, in his
remarks, thanked the president for his developmental strides and
tremendous achievements in the country. Gbadebo, who is the Chairman of the Obas Council, however urged the
president  to revive the Olokola Shore project and the Tongeji Island. This, according to him, would boost the economy within the shores of Ogun and Nigeria as a whole. He promised to deliver “more than 60 per cent of our support in this coming elections.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that monarchs present also
included the Akarigbo of Remo, Oba Adewale Ajayi, the Olu of Ilaro, Oba
Kehinde Olugbenle and the Awujale of Ijebuland, Oba Sikiru Adetona, who
was  represented by the Dagburewe of Idowa. (NAN)