By Lydia Ngwakwe  Lagos, – The Centre for Children’s Health, Education, Orientation and Protection (CEE-HOPE), an NGO, has called on the Nigeria Police Force to ensure full implementation of the 2003 Child Rights Act, which criminalises rape of minors. Mrs Betty Abah, the Executive Director of CEE-HOPE, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in Lagos that the rate of sexual violence especially against children is common and very high. “The 2003 Child Rights Act clearly criminalises rape of minors with stringent punishment. “The Violence Against Persons (Prohibition) Act of 2015 clearly prescribes jail terms ranging from 14 years to life imprisonment for sexual violence against minors. “For the most part, perpetrators still go scot-free because there is no seriousness on the part of our law enforcement agencies and sometimes the court to enforce the law,’’ she said. Betty-Abah said that she supports a statement by the Sierra Leonean President, Julius Maada Bio, which says “rape and sexual violence should be declared as a national emergency’’. Bio had said that anyone who carried out sexual attacks on minors in his country would be punished with life imprisonment. “The news from Sierra Leone is quite heart-warming, and in a way I am sad that they beat Nigeria to it and I believe that rape is overdue to be declared a national emergency here. “The rate of sexual violence especially against children is at an all-time high but sadly, there has not been any concerted effort to it. “Look at the much publicised case of Ochanya for instance; with the local and international spotlight that attended that case, there is still a lot of foot-dragging. It is such a big shame. “We need to learn from this country, this has proven how seriously the country takes the human right, dignity and protection of their minors. “If a country with less than eight million people can take the bull by the horn, why shouldn’t Nigeria, a country of about 200 million people do same,’’ Betty-Abah said. The rights activist advised the police not to always see sexual violence and rape cases as an opportunity to make money from the accused, adding that doing so will mean taking sides and subvert justice. She appealed to states that are yet to domesticate these Acts into law to do so, saying if they are not made laws, the enforcement will be difficult. Besides, she called for the sensitisation of people including potential victims about their rights. CEE-HOPE is an NGO which works on the rights and protection of the most vulnerable children in Nigeria.