By Temitope Ponle Abuja – The Head of African Union Election Observation Mission, Mr Hailemariam Desalegn, has commended young candidates for participating in Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections in Nigeria. In the mission’s Preliminary
Statement presented in Abuja on Monday, Desalegn, former Prime Minister
of Ethiopia, also commended the Federal Government for the enactment of
the Not-Too-Young-to-Run Act. He said that the Act enhanced the participation and political representation of young people in the elections. “Political parties and young people
should leverage the opportunity created by the Not-Too-Young-to-Run Act
to increase political participation and representation,” he said. The head of mission commended
media’s role in the elections, but condemned the use of social media in
propagating misinformation about the electoral processes and
contestants. According to him, such has negative implications for the country’s democracy, peace and stability. “The mission calls on Nigerians and
other stakeholders to act responsibly in the use of social media and
refrain from disseminating false information on the elections,
particularly the results,” he stated. Desalegn said that the AU
Observation Mission deployed 50 observers to 122 voting points in
certain states, representing the six geopolitical regions. He said that elections took place in
a relatively peaceful environment, in spite of delays in polling units
visited, and that voters exercised their rights to participate without
systematic restriction. “The secrecy of the votes was
guaranteed in 85.4 per cent of the voting points observed. Where it was
not guaranteed, it was mainly due to poor layout of the voting points. “Polling procedures, such as
verification and accreditation of voters were adhered to in 98.4 per
cent of the voting points observed,” he said. He also commended the priority given
to persons with disabilities, the aged, expectant and nursing mothers
and assistance given to persons unable to vote. The mission leader urged political
parties and candidates to uphold the commitments to peaceful elections
and resolution of disputes in keeping with the two peace accords signed
in December, 2018 and shortly before the elections. “They are further urged to call on
their supporters to remain calm and peaceful, and refrain from any
action that might incite post-election violence. “In any case of grievances over
election results, political parties and candidates are encouraged to use
legal instruments at their disposal to seek redress,” he said. The mission congratulated the
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for its cooperation
with electoral observers and urged it to improve on election management
to address the consistent postponement of elections. It also recommended that the
commission should strengthen the capacity of polling staff through
training on assisting voters, counting and other electoral procedures.