By Abiodun Esan Ilorin, – Malam Garba Attahiru-Madami, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) for Kwara, has advised students of the University of Ilorin to shun violence during and after the forthcoming general elections in the state. Attaihiru-Madami gave the advice on
Tuesday in Ilorin while addressing students of the university on the
coming general elections in the state. “You should refuse to be used as political thugs to foment trouble before, during and after the elections. “Tell the politicians who approach you to be their thugs to make use of their children,” he said. According to him, students are very vulnerable and can easily be lured with money to cause trouble during the elections. The REC also appealed to the students not to campaign for any political party within the premises of the polling units. Attahiru-Madami warned that any student caught campaigning on the day of the election would be arrested and prosecuted. He said students should go to the
polling units on Election Day with their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) to
cast their votes for candidates of their choice and be peaceful. REC called on students, who were yet collect their PVCs to do so, on or before Feb 8, the last day for the exercise. “Your PVC is your weapon to elect leaders of your choice, leaders that will bring dividends of democracy to you.” He assured the university community
of INEC readiness to conduct free, fair, credible and acceptable
elections which would be adjudged the best in the country. The REC also admonished them against
selling their PVCs for any amount, saying that if they should trade
their PVCs for paltry sum of money, they would be mortgaging their
future. He disclosed that 1, 130, 266 PVCs had so far been collected out of the 1, 406, 457 registered PVCs in the state. Attahiru-Madami expressed optimism
that sizeable number out of the remaining 277, 184 uncollected PVCs
would be collected before the Feb 8 deadline for the exercise. He also said that on Election Day, no camera or phone would be allowed into the voting cubicle. According to REC,voters will leave
their phones with the Presiding Officers and collect same back after
dropping their ballot papers. “Food is not allowed in the premises of the polling areas, voters are advised to eat before coming to vote. “This is to discourage vote buying
by politicians, because bringing food to voters at the polling units
amounts to influencing voters to vote for their candidates.” The REC also said that no vehicle
would be allowed at the polling units, adding that politicians might
capitalise on that to bring money in the vehicle to buy voters.