By Muhammad Nasir Bello Sokoto  – Abdussamad Dasuki, the member representing Kebbe/Tambuwal Federal Constituency, Sokoto State, has disbursed N1 million as scholarship grant to 200 students in the constituency. The beneficiaries were drawn from Tambuwal Local Government Area. Dasuki who gave out the grant on Thursday in Sokoto said: “The
gesture is part of my personal contribution to support the state
government commitment in improving education in the state. “Education is the backbone of all development in any society and it
deserves collective efforts,  as such, I will continue to do more in the
sector to ensure our people get better education. “Also, the gesture is in continuation of the main focus of the
current administration, under the leadership of Governor Aminu Tambuwal
to ensure no one is out of school because of financial constraint.” Dasuki urged the students to remain committed to their studies, be of
good character and worthy ambassadors of their various communities. “I urge you to focus more on your studies and be of good habits, so
that you will represent your community and become better leaders of
tomorrow,” he said. The lawmaker also pledged to work with students’ leaders in order to
succeed in areas of human development, if reelected to represent the
constituency in the Feb. 16 elections. Earlier, a member of the state House of Assembly, Alhaji Sulaiman
Romo (PDP- Tambuwal West), commended Dasuki for the gesture and urged
the students to help mobilise support for all PDP candidates. Responding on behalf of the students, the President, Tambuwal/Dasuki
Students Intellectual Mobilisation Team, Alhassan Adamu, assured that
the group would work with other students in the area to ensure the
success of the lawmaker. “We have witnessed the best legislature commitment from Dasuki and we
are only in this movement to ensure his success in order to continue to
get more democracy dividends,” the student said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Dasuki had also
released N1 million in January to another set of 200 students from Kebbe
Local Government Area.