By Olusola Oke Igbotako – The Chairman of Legacy Forum, a unit of the Buhari Support Organisation, Major-Gen. Olu Bajowa (rtd.) has called on Nigerians to shun vote selling and buying as well as stay away from all acts of election violence. He said this on Saturday at Igbotako during a stakeholders’ meeting
of the All Progressives Congress (APC) across the 13 wards in Okitipupa
Local Government Area of Ondo State. Bajowa, flanked by his wife, Yemi, said that politics is not a do-or-die affair. “My advice is that people should not sell their votes as vote buying
and selling amount to trading off peoples’ future and that of their
children. “On the day of the election, electorate should vote and not fight, but guard their votes jealously,” he said. Bajowa, however, said that any vote not for President Muhammadu Buhari re-election will be a waste come Feb. 16 poll. He stated that the meeting was to ensure that massive grassroots
votes are garnered for President Buhari, who is seeking a second term in
office in the Feb. 16 election. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Legacy Forum has
been in the forefront of the campaign for the sustainability of good
governance which the body maintains that the Buhari government stands
for. The chairman of the group appealed to the electorate to deliver their
votes for Buhari/Osinbajo, saying the duo were better positioned to
take the country out of the woods. Bajowa called on electorate to cast their votes for Buhari, assuring that the President would not disappoint if reelected. According to him, opinions and other parameters are indicating victory for the president. He noted that the group had been sensitising the public about the
need for Nigerians to support the Buhari presidency so that “the next
level” would become achievable for all Nigerians. The retired general said that President Buhari had a lot of things
working in his favour, among which are his integrity and accountability,
good governance, war on corruption, security and infrastructure drive. Also speaking, Mr Bode Ikulala, the APC chairman in the local
government area, thanked the Legacy Forum and Bajowa for associating
with the party. He reassured him that the party was very popular in the grassroots
which preferred the progressives than associating with those who had
stolen the country blind in the time past. The meeting had in attendance all APC ward executives in the 13 wards of Okitipupa LGA.