…Warns That INEC is Inviting The Wrath of Nigerians The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) accuses the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of withholding sensitive election materials including collation (form EC8D) and result (form EC8E) sheets in states considered to be PDP strongholds. This was made known in a statement sgned by Kola Ologbondiyan, National Publicity Secretary And Director, Media & Publicity, PDP Presidential Campaign Organization. “Intelligence at our disposal shows that certain compromised INEC officials are working with agents of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to hold back the material so as to pave way for the allocation of fictitious results for President Muhammadu Buhari and APC National Assembly candidates in the affected states. For instance, in Abia state, no collation forms and result sheets have been received for the Senatorial elections, while no result sheets for all the elections have been received in Delta and various other states. Also in Kano state only 105 Senate result sheets have been received in Garko Local Government Area instead of 144 . Rogo LGA has received 106 Senate result sheets instead of 141; Danbatta has received 28 cartons of House of Representatives ballot papers instead of 29, while Tofa LGA has received 18 cartons instead of 19. This scenario is playing out in many other states. The PDP charges the Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu to immediately release the materials to their respective designated points and cautions that it will never allow anybody to use any means to rig it out in this election. Prof. Yakubu must note that this serious infraction is already heightening tension and would eventually lead to serious crisis in affected states ahead of the election, if nothing was done to stem the trend. The PDP recalls that it had earlier alerted that the INEC Chairman is again succumbing to back-channel intimidation by the APC and the Buhari Presidency to accede to their rigging plot, which includes hoarding and in some cases, delay in the distribution of sensitive materials meant for PDP stronghold as well as using APC agents as electoral officers. The PDP cautions the INEC Chairman not to allow the APC to use him to derail the electoral process, particularly after the disgraceful postponement of the February 16 elections. Nigerians are alert. They are noting the trend and will spare no thoughts in standing against any attempt by INEC and the APC to rig this election.”