By Aisha Gambo Kaduna – Government Girls Secondary School, Independence Way, Kaduna, on Thursday emerged  winner of the Diamond Challenge National Pitch Competition for High School Entrepreneurs. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Diamond Challenge
is an innovative entrepreneurship competition for secondary schools
across the globe. The winning team in the competition presented a Fashion Design
Business concept tagged “New Era Fashion World’’ and had Maimunatu Isah
as its team leader. Lucy Johnson, initiator of the House of Diamond Community Initiative,
said the national winner will represent Nigeria in the U.S for the
finals. “The winners will go for a three day summit in the U.S to compete with other teams from countries across the globe. “ The first place gets $11,000 for the team and $3,500 for each
member; second place gets $7,500 and $1,500 for each member of the team
while the third place gets $3,500 for the team and $750 per member. “We are hopeful that we will win something because we have a fantastic business concept,’’ she said. Earlier, the Commissioner for Education, Kaduna State, Ja’afar
Ibrahim, represented by Hadiza Abdulkarim, said the state government
will support the winner and make sure they succeed in subsequent event. He added that the state had already made provisions for students to
learn a skill by introducing entrepreneurship subjects to secondary
schools curriculum. He commended the organisers of the competition, saying it would help support and guide learners on how to enhance their skills. Also, Elizabeth Fatima-David , Deputy Director, Girl Child Education
in the state Ministry of Education, Science and Technology said the
challenge was introduced to the ministry last year. She said the initiative will motivate teenagers to bring up business concepts that will make them self reliant and productive. NAN reports that the event was organised by Diamond House of
Initiative in collaboration with the University of Delaware and Kaduna
State Government. (NAN) 