By Habibu Harisu Sokoto – Mr Kaigama Kabo, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC ) sector commander in Sokoto State, says no fewer than 366 personnel of the corps will be deployed for 2019 election duties in the state. The Sector Commander, who made the disclosure in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Sokoto, added that the personnel had been trained on their expected roles and responsibilities during the general elections. Kabo explained that Mr Aliyu Gummi, an Assistant Corps Marshal in charge of Abuja zonal command, represented the Corps Marshal and Chief Executive Officer, Mr Boboye Oyeyemi, at the one-day training. He said the training was to equip the personnel on how to provide standard security and logistics support to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) during the elections. He said resource persons from Police, DSS and INEC also made presentations on the best possible methods at handling security situations especially as it relates to the FRSC during the elections. “FRSC is well prepared to face its tasks and will not disappoint the nation in its contribution to the success of this national assignment” Kabo said. He explained that FRSC’s participation in the 2019 general elections would involve certification of all vehicles to be used for the conveyance of election materials and its personnel. He said that it would also ensure diligent discharge of responsibilities assigned to it by INEC in the conduct of the elections as a member of the inter agency security committee. He noted that members of the corps had in the past few months been involved in various activities to adequately prepare its personnel ahead of the tasks. According to him, ensuring safe and free movement of election vehicles, materials and smooth electoral process will be part of the responsibilities of the FRSC. The Commander said this was because the commission was the lead agency in road traffic administration and safety management in the country. “FRSC is a member of the Inter Agency Committee on Election Security (ICCES) which is co-chaired by the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the National Security Adviser (NSA), he said. He added that during the training Corp Marshal’s representative recalled that INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, had made a presentation at the Corps Marshal’s strategy session held on Jan. 31, 2019. He further explained that INEC had made a request to the corps in such areas as screening and profiling the drivers who would drive vehicles conveying election materials as well as inspection of the vehicles. He added that FRSC Call Centre and emergency facilities for prompt response to distress calls and emergency messages on election would be available, to ensure free movement of traffic for voters.