By Olisa Ifeajika  N’djamena – Maj.-Gen. Chikezie Ude, Field Commander, Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) on Boko Haram insurgency, said operations of the team were currently being executed by 10,250 military personnel. He told some Nigerian journalists in N’djamena, Chad, on Friday that
the number of the personnel, drawn from Nigeria, Chad, Niger and
Cameroon, the four countries involved in the task force operations, rose
from 7,600 in 2015. Ude, therefore, said that the operations did not have challenge of
personnel, adding that the size of the troops had led to the huge
decimation of the insurgents in the Lake Chad Basin. According to him, in 2015, Boko Haram was everywhere, but as at
today, no place is under firm control of the insurgents in Nigeria. The commander said that with the collaboration of national military
forces of member-states of the Chad Basin, the Task Force had been able
to recover areas previously lost to the insurgents. He, however, called for support of all segments of the society in the
fight to eliminate terrorism in the region, saying “defeating terrorism
is not a military affair alone”. He reaffirmed the mandate of the MNJTF, saying that it is to create
safe environment in the basin, to significantly reduce violence against
civilians, especially women and children. Ude disclosed that 2,000 civilian casualties were recorded in the
insurgency war in 2015, adding however that the number dropped to 573 in
2018. He said that security operations in the region had improved
considerably, adding that MNJTF’s activities were being prosecuted in
four sectors in Bakasole (Chad), Nigeria (Baga), Niger (Diffa) and
Cameroon, with additional contingent from Benin Republic. He said that the forces had been integrated to respond to situations
as they arose, explaining that emphasis was on “mobile operations”
because of the wide expanse of land in the Lake Chad Basin. “The task force has kept up with developments in the field, adjusting as the insurgents change strategy. “Last week alone, we neutralized no fewer than 93 Boko Haram
fighters, and this is quite encouraging. All arrested insurgents are
often handed over to national forces of the areas where they are
captured.” The commander also disclosed that strategies were being evolved for
the protection of liberated communities, “which number 100s, in the area
because no deliberate effort for follow-ups on this’’. He said that situation had remained an issue which the countries of
LCBC and the international community were trying to harmonise efforts to
ensure that it was sorted out. According to him, the civilian population in the liberated areas
needs structured administration and facilities, with adequate security
arrangement, to return and remain in the communities. Ude called for effective policing of border communities of contiguous
nations to ensure that the terrorists did not have free movement in the
areas. He commended citizens of member-states of LCBC for their support for
MNJTF and assured that the insurgency would be diminished as the
offensive from the joint operations was faring well. He added that the journey of the war was almost coming to an end,
saying that with the support of the people, including the media, “the
narratives will change”. On funding for the task force, the commander said that it was the
responsibility of the Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC), noting that it
is progressing. (NAN)