By Ijendu Iheaka Aba (Abia) – Residents of Aba, the economic hub of Abia, have expressed concern over the two decomposing corpses that presently littered some streets in the city. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) learnt that two armed robbery suspects were allegedly lynched and burnt to death by angry mobs on Saturday and Monday. Speaking on the unhealthy development on Tuesday, the people said that they could no longer cope with the stench emanating from the corpses. They called for the quick intervention of the relevant authorities in Aba North Local Government Area in removing the corpses. The corpses were lying at the SAMEC Junction and Uche Street in Eziama at the time of filing the report. They said that the situation could constitute health hazard to those living or doing business in the vicinity, if not urgently removed. They said that some residents had already relocated temporarily out of the area, while some business premises had remained closed since Saturday. A resident, Mr Ikedi Onyejiaka, regetted that the remains of the suspects were left “to rot away on the street, not minding the health implication.” Another resident, Kingsley Okorie, said that the decomposing corpses portrayed the local government authorities as “insensitive.” They appealed to the local government authorities to take urgent steps to evacuate the corpses to avert an epidemic in the area. Mrs Ngozi Ochor, the Head, Aba North Environmental Health Department, said that her office only got to know about the unhealthy development a few hours ago. Ochor said that she had written to the police for the permit to evacuate the corpses. She said, “The health implementation of the situation on the residents is enormous. “When the air and our environment are polluted, the reality is that our health is at risk. “If corpses are not disposed off from our streets, our environment becomes uninhabitable and extremely hazardous. “They contaminate almost everything around us and expose both the young and old to danger. “Disease carriers like flies will perch on them and move to contaminate everything around, including food. Ochor, who said that he did not encourage crime, admonished Aba residents against taking the law into their hands. She said that robbery suspects should be handed over to appropriate authorities for the law to take its full course. “They should hand over criminal suspects to the police rather than kill them and leave their decomposing corpses on the streets,” she said. NAN reports that no fewer than six suspected criminals had been lynched and burnt to death by irate mobs in the commercial city within the past two months. (NAN).