By Ifeanyi Olannye Asaba – Delta Government on Monday presented computers, generating sets and other office equipment to 10 HIV comprehensive centres and service delivery points in the state. Mr Festus Agas, Secretary to the State Government (SSG) and Chairman,
Delta State Agency for the Control of Aids (Delta SACA), presented the
equipment to the centres at the Delta SACA office in Asaba. Agas, represented by Mr John Morka, Permanent Secretary, SSG’s
Office, said the equipment was aimed at upgrading the centres,
strengthening their monitoring and evaluation units and the local action
committee on Aids for effective data management. According to the SSG, the state has put modalities in place to
provide such equipment to the remaining HIV comprehensive centres in the
state. “As you are all aware, harvesting and managing data remains a major challenge in the response to the HIV/AIDS at all levels. “The desk top computers being donated to the centres today will go a
long way in the management of data for effective HIV/AIDS Programme. “I want to reiterate the full commitment of the present
administration in the state to ensuring a zero-HIV/AIDS prevalence and
incidence in the state. “This administration will not only provide the enabling environment
but also partner relevant organisations for effective result-oriented
state response to the HIV/AIDS pandemic.’’ Agas thanked Caritas Nigeria, a partner, for donating generating sets
to the Central Hospital, Ughelli, and General Hospitals Errhoike,
Obiaruku and Agbarho. He urged other partners to emulate the gesture to further enhance quality service delivery. He tasked all stakeholders to double their efforts and charged the
centres to put the facilities to the best use, to ensure optimal
results. Also, Dr John Osuyali, Executive Secretary, Delta SACA, said the
equipment donated were part of the state government’s contributions
aimed at strengthening the agency’s structures in the state. “Our governor believes in results; he is a data person and he values data. “As you can see, we have the computers, generating sets, office
tables, chairs among others, there for the monitoring and evaluation
units in our hospitals. “The partners’ funding stopped last year but with the coming of Gov.
Ifeanyi Okowa, he has also approved that he will be filling the funding
gap for the agency. “This is the second round of equipment distribution to our hospitals
in the state; we have given out 10 before now and he has approved
another 20 for distribution for our treatment centres.’’ He, however, charged the recipient hospitals to deploy the equipment to the relevant units and protect them from abuse. Osuyali appealed to all stakeholders and the general public to brace
up with the challenges of funding and take ownership of the project,
particularly now that most donor organisations were withdrawing their
support. Dr Kingsley Ovih, ART Coordinator, Central Hospital, Agbor, on behalf
of the beneficiary hospitals, thanked the state government and SACA for
the gesture while giving an assurance that the equipment would be
deployed to effective use. Also, Mrs Norah Otuechere, Programme Manager, Caritas Nigeria
(Partner), pledged continued commitment to ensure HIV/AIDS zero
prevalence in Delta. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the benefiting
hospitals include the Central Hospitals in Warri, Sapele, Agbor and
Ughelli as well as the General Hospitals at Oghara, Agbarho, Ekpan,
Okwe, Obiaruku and Otujeremi.(NAN)