By Philip Yatai Kaduna – Kaduna State Government has procured 460 mobile teaching aids as part of efforts to boost science education in basic and secondary schools in the state. The state’s Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology,
Ja’afaru Sani made this known on Saturday at the opening of one-day
training on the use of mobile teaching aid and intervention laboratory
for science teachers. Sani, who was represented by Sabon Tasha Zonal Director, Mr Joshua
Ayuba, explained that the 460 teaching aid, invented by the Federal
University of Technology (FUT), Minna, would be distributed to 361
secondary schools across the state. He added that all science teachers in the state were being trained
simultaneously in six centres across the state on how to use the mobile
teaching aid for effective teaching of science subjects in the state. According to him, the measure was to improve the learning outcomes of
students in the area of science and technology, which is currently not
too encouraging. “This administration has realised that the expected learning outcomes
is not being achieved, particularly in science and technology due to
non-availability of adequate instructional materials. “Lack of utilisation of appropriate teaching method is another factor affecting learning outcomes in our schools. “It was to address this that the government decided to procure this
unique mobile teaching aid which could serve as a laboratory to promote
science and technology,” he said.
Sani also said that the government had in 2017 procured and distributed
mobile laboratories to selected secondary schools and supplied
consumable materials and tools to five technical colleges in the state. “We equally procured science equipment for laboratories and
distributed more than 15,000 tablet computers to students and teachers
in 2018 to promote science and technology education. “I assure you that with these steps and more, we will soon address
all challenges regarding laboratories and workshops in our public
schools,” he said. The inventor, Sadiq Lawal of Mechanical Engineering Department, FUT
Minna, described the equipment as science educational demonstrations,
experiments, display and instructional materials that aid the teaching
and learning of sciences. Lawal explained that the equipment, which could be used in the
absence of a laboratory provides multifunctional interface for variety
of experiments for all science subjects. Earlier, the Vice Chancellor, FUT Minna, Prof. Abdullahi Bala,
commended Gov. Nasir El-Rufai for his commitment towards promoting
science and technology education in the state. Bala, who was represented by Prof. Moses Olutoye, Director, Research,
Innovations and Development, said that the equipment was invented to
improve the learning outcomes of students in science subjects. “This equipment is one among many inventions by our faculty members
aimed at making the teaching of science subjects easier for teachers and
simpler for the students to comprehend,” he said. Malam Mohammed Ashafa, Director, FUTMIN Ventures, FUT Minna,
explained that the mobile equipment was invented to promote science and
technology education in the country. Ashafa noted the importance of science education to the development
of any nation, stressing that Nigeria must pay attention to science
education from basic level to tertiary levels to tap from its benefits.