By Ismaila Chafe Abuja – The Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party in Yobe, Alhaji Sani Inuwa Nguru, has defected to the governing All Progressives Congress (APC). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Nguru was led to the
Presidential Villa, Abuja, by Dr Mohammed Abuza, a Chieftain of the APC
in Yobe, where he met with President Muhammadu Buhari. Nguru, whose defection came less than 48 hours to the conduct of the
Presidential and National Assembly elections, told State House
correspondents that he came to express his loyalty and `desire to return
home’. According to him, he was the first chairman of the APC after the
merger in the state, adding that “anyone who has been a member of ANPP
and CPC is one of Buhari’s loyalist’’. NAN reports that 12 members of Forum of Presidential candidates of
political parties for good governance had earlier endorsed President
Buhari’s re-election bid in Saturday’s presidential election. The affected members subordinated their own ambitions to that of
President Buhari, instead of running for the presidency on Saturday. The Chairman of the Forum, Shitu Kabir, who is also the presidential
candidate of Advanced Peoples Democratic Alliance (APDA), confirmed the
development when members of the forum visited President Buhari at the
Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Thursday. He said they decided to throw in their lots with President Buhari
because of advances made in security, economy, fighting corruption,
infrastructure development, agricultural revolution and many others. Other members of the Forum that acquiesced to the endorsement
include: Edozie Madu of Independent Democrats; Danjuma Mohammed
(Movement for Restoration & Defence of Democracy); Yusuf Nadabo
Dantalle (Allied Peoples Movement); Ahmed Buhari (Save Nigeria Party)
and Alhaji Isah B. Dansarki of the Mass Movement of Nigeria. Others include: Ikechukwu Nwaokafor (Advance Congress of Democrats);
Alista Soyode (Yes Party); Charles Ogbali (Advanced Nigeria Democratic
Party); Kenneth Ibe Kalu (United Peoples Congress); Comrade Isiyaka Paul
Femili (Nigeria Element Progressive Party) and Robinson Akpu of the
National Democratic Liberty Party.(NAN)