…Raises Serious Concerns
over Buratai’s continued Stay in the Army … Describes Acting IGP Adamu
as “a Status Quo IGP” By
Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Int’l Society for Civil Liberties & the Rule of Law (Intersociety) has raised that alarm that the lopsided appointment within the security circle especially as recently witness with the police is capable of fueling separatist sentiments with capacity to breed and escalate group radicalism in whole or parts. The group also expressed
serious concern over continued stay in
the Army of Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai who it says is presently
haunted by innumerable atrocities that greeted and still greet and darkened and
still darken his era as Nigeria’s Chief of Army Staff since 13th July
2015. The statement signed by the group’s Principal Official/Board
Chairman, Emeka Umeagbalasi and three
others and sent to Sundiata Post reads in full: Int’l
Society for Civil Liberties & the Rule of Law (Intersociety) has critically studied the recent lopsided appointment,
promotion and posting of the Zonal Assistant Inspectors Gen of Police (AIGs)
and State Commissioners of Police (CPs) and concluded that the case of
Southeast and by extension, the South-south has gone from bad to worse, if not
worst. In the area of the 37 newly
appointed State CPs, no fewer than 22 are found to be Muslims, out of which 21
are Hausa-Fulani Muslims. Out of the same 37 newly appointed State CPs, only
two were appointed from the Southeast Region, while the Southwest Zone got 10
State CPs; leaving the South-south and Northern Christian areas with four, out
of which three are from the South-south. In the area of the newly
appointed AIGs in charge of the country’s 12 Police Zonal Commands, no fewer
than eight are Northern Muslims/Christians; involving AIGs in charge of Zones
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. The remaining three Zonal AIGs are split among the
Southeast, South-south and Southwest Zones, out of which Southeast Zone was
given one slot. Four Northern Muslim AIGs are also appointed to take charge of
Force Investment, Intelligence Bureau, Maritime and AIG FCID positions. As a further confirmation
of the case of Southeast gone from bad to worse, if not worst, CP Damian Agba
Chukwu (CP Borno) will retire from the Force on 19th March 2019
or in 40 days from today. The second Igbo State CP, Celestine Okoye (CP
Zamfara) has relatively longer period to stay in the Force and will be due for
retirement on 22nd December 2020. The two are only
Igbo/Southeast CPs in the list of the 37 newly appointed State CPs. Revealing, too, is the fact
that the only Igbo AIG, Chris Okey Ezike, (AIG Zone 4, Makurdi) will retire on
Tuesday, 30th April 2019 or in 81 days from today. Also the
only Igbo/Southeast DIG, Godwin C. Nwobodo (DIG Information and Communication
Technology-ICT) will retire from the NPF on 12th August 2019 or
in six months and twenty days from today. Totality of the foregoing
is, therefore, a strong indication that the dilemma of the Southeast in the
Nigeria Police Force has further worsened and entrenched. The newly appointed Acting
IGP, Muhammad Adamu has also been critically mirrored, studied and analyzed and
found to be “a status quo IGP”; with no meaningful changes expected to take
place under his leadership. The gross lopsidedness and
scheming out of the Southeast Region, a home with sedentary and pastoral
Judeo-Christian population of no fewer than 50m; from the country’s defense and
security positions and the inaction and puppetry antics of the Region’s top
political appointees particularly the Southeast Governors have,
again, called for serious concerns. This conversely
reminds Intersociety of what happened in 2013 when we raised
similar concerns; forcing a former Anambra Governor to take the next available
flight to Abuja to meet with then Chairman of the Police Service Commission.
The meeting yielded fruit and resulted to the promotion of retired DIG Chintua
Amajor-Onu to AIG. Retired DIG Chintua Onu had before then remained as a CP for
several years.  AIG Chris Ezike immediately after our raised concerns
and the former Anambra Governor’s intervention got promoted to CP having
managed to get promoted to DCP on 1st August 2012; six months
after his course mate, now Retired DIG Peter Yisa Gana (former DIG FCID) was
promoted to DIG on 22nd February 2012. We make bold to say
that the structural and cultural violence above highlighted
are too dangerous a policy or practice and are dangerously threatening the
survival of the Igbo Nation in particular and Nigeria in general. of ethnic
cleansing in They also fuel separatist sentiments
with capacity to breed and escalate group radicalism in whole or in part. They
are further a confirmation of existence and entrenchment Nigeria’s security, defense and policing establishments.
These annihilative policies and conducts must stop and be discontinued before
it is too late or rise to irreversible point or
proportion. Serious Concerns Over Tukur
Buratai’s Continued Stay In The Army 3rd January
2019 marks 38 yrs of service-membership of the Nigerian Army by COAS, Lt Gen
Tukur Yusuf Buratai.  Lt Gen Tukur Yusuf hails from Buratai Community
in Biu Local Government Area of Borno State, Northeast Nigeria. He is a member
of Course 29 of the Nigerian Defense Academy, having joined the Nigerian Army on
3rdJanuary 1981 at the age of 21 as a member of 29 Regular
Combatant Course (29 RC).He was also reported to have been born on 24th November
1960 and commissioned Second Lieutenant on 17th December
1983.  The COAS was statutorily due for retirement since 3rd January
2016 having attained 35yrs in service, but have refused to leave the Army since
then. Further, it is on record
that the COAS joined the Nigerian Defense Academy-NDA when it was still a
military training college issuing National Certificate in Education (NCE),
thereby making the COAS as one of its NCE recipients. The NDA changed to degree
certificates or degree awarding institution from its Course 36; making its
recipients to be entitled to or covered by the Harmonized Terms and
Condition of Services Officers (HTACOS), 2012 (Revised). HTACOS was intended to
make retirement age (i.e. 35yrs in service) in the military (army, navy and air
force) different from other personnel or public servants of the Federal
Government covered by the Civil Service Rules of the Federation. However, the HTACOS was
designed to start with the 36th Course (C36) and their equivalents and above.
The Course 36 members were the first set to start full degree programs at the
Nigerian Defense Academy (NDA). Before then, those in Courses 1 to 35
(including Lt Gen Buratai’s Course 29) studied and graduated with the National
Certificate in Education (NCE) from the NDA. This means that while Course 36
and above will benefit from all the provisions of the HTACOS, their seniors,
Courses 1 to 35, will not have the same and full benefits. The Presidency had
in its attempts to defend the COAS and his overstay in NA in June 2017 admitted
that the COAS is a member of the Course 29 of NDA. See more details here:https://northeaststaronline.com/?p=3040. It is likely that the COAS
is presently haunted by innumerable conduct atrocities that
greeted and still greet and darkened and still darken his era as Nigeria’s
Chief of Army Staff since 13th July 2015. Apart from serious
allegations of war crimes under his leadership of NA in its counterinsurgency
operations in the Northeast, he also bodily and facially watched and did
nothing or refused not to consent to the broad day massacre of no fewer than
700 Shiites on 12th December 2015. The massacre started on 12th and
ended on 14th December 2015, leaving hundreds of death tolls
and hundreds of others with battered injuries. The Government of Kaduna
State later mangled the death figures and admitted that “347 citizens were
killed” and buried in criminal mass graves. Subsequent killing of Shiites by
the NA also led to hundreds of death including in 2018 when no fewer than 60
were killed, bringing the total to no fewer than 1200 since 12th December
2015. Under Buratai’s watch, too, leader of IMN, Mallam Zaky el-Zaky and his
wife were shot and battered before being handed over, half dead, to SSS for
solitary and indefinite detention till date. As if that was not enough,
in less than three days, too, no fewer than 180 unarmed and defenseless
citizens were shot and mass-murdered by the Nigerian Army under the COAS
operational watch, directive and supervision; with over 130 others shot and
critically injured. The massacre occurred on 12th, 13th and
14th September 2017 in Abia State part of Eastern Nigeria. The
massacre had occurred in addition to earlier killing by the military and police
in the same Eastern Nigeria of no fewer than 300 defenseless citizens and
injuring of over 370 others in mass killings described by Amnesty Int’l on
24th November 2016 as “killings perpetrated under
repressive raining of bullets everywhere”. Today, especially following
the release of our special report (Military Massacre Operations In Eastern
Nigeria: August 2015-September 2017), another round of image laundering has
been let loose, so as to mechanically shore or patch up the drowning image and
blood stained integrity of the perpetrators. One of such
“awards-on-the-blood-of-the-innocent” was recently christened “accountability
and transparency award”.  Issuance of human rights reports in today’s
Nigeria has become a “bloody diamond and gold” to some persons and groups masquerading
as “rights groups” or “CSOs”. Those vividly described by
erudite Prof Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala as “Nigerian fraudulent anti corruption/rights
NGOs” are at it again this time around; encouraging the butcheries and
emboldening the butchers. It is so sad that even in the NPF, the largest
recipients of “Nigerian based human rights awards/certificates” are the chief
custodial killers and torturers of legally presumed innocent detainees and
other spuriously accused or innocent citizens. Recently in Anambra State,
for instance, a chief custodial killer/torturer and  former Anambra
State Police SARS commander whose conduct atrocities have been catalogued in
several Amnesty Int’l reports and other researched works
bordering on gross rights abuses and violations; is presently listed as one of
the largest recipients of “human rights awards/certificates” in Nigeria. “Human
Rights awards/certificates” in his custody, cited by independent sources, are
reportedly in hundreds. Finally, Intersociety makes
bold to say that not even 1000 innocent blood-soaked “human rights” or
“accountability and transparency” awards awarded to such atrocity crimes
perpetrators to cover up their vicarious and direct involvement in the massacre
of thousands of innocent Nigerians can change anything or deter men and women
of good conscience all over the world from doing the needful when the time is
ripe or appropriate. These we morally and
conscientiously say or benevolently assert in accordance with spiritual
guidance and angelical tasks tasked upon us by the restless spirits of the
murdered or the butchered who loiter restlessly in cosmic world demanding for
justice to be done to facilitate their restfulness and cleansing of their
formerly earthly paths now desecrated and flooded with their own innocent blood
and tears. In the words of erudite
Prof Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala during her October 2017 immortal and advisory speech
to international development institutions including WB and IMF, “international institutions must be careful with fraudulent NGOs in Nigeria. You need to ensure you are working with the right CSOs and
NGOs. The people you are fighting are also very smart. They are not just
sitting back. They also develop their own NGOs to serve as a front for them;
people who can certify them that they are very accountable in what they are
doing” “So, you have to be
careful. You have to be able to identify those who are the proper people. And
we have many NGOs in Nigeria and in the African continent who are (corruptly
and immorally) fighting really hard than to make their governments accountable”. http://nationaljournal.ng/index.php/2017/10/16/okonjo-iweala-warns-imf-of-nigerias-fraudulent-anti-corruption-civil-society-groups/ Signed For: Int’l Society for
Civil Liberties & the Rule of Law ·         Emeka Umeagbalasi (B.Sc. (Hons) CSS, M.Sc. PCR) Principal Official/Board Chair ·         Obianuju Joy Igboeli, Esq. (LLB, BL) Head, Civil Liberties & Rule of Law Program ·         Chinwe Umeche, Esq. (LLB, BL) Head, Democracy & Good Governance Program ·         Chidimma Evan Udegbunam, Esq. (LLB, BL) Head, Campaign & Publicity Department