ABUJA – KOWA Party has issued a strong disclaimer against its reported
endorsement of President Muhammadu Buhari for second term. The party’s
national chairman’s name, Saidu Bobboi, and his signature were published
as among the national chairmen who signed a full-page advertorial in
today’s ThisDay newspaper endorsing the president. However, the
national headquarters of the party has come out strongly against the
endorsement through a statement issued by the Party’s national
secretary, Comrade Mark Adebayo, at the Party’s national headquarters in
Abuja today. “It has come as a rude shock to the Party’s
National Executive Committee of KOWA Party that the Party’s name was
published as among political Parties purported to have endorsed the
incumbent president Muhammadu Buhari for second term. KOWA Party was
never and will never be part of such thoughtless and shameless
contraption of endorsement. As far we are concerned it fake news!” “We
urge all KOWA Party members and supporters accross the country and
Diaspora to completely disregard such sociopolitical sacrilege against
the noble spirit and cause that KOWA Party represents. KOWA Party will
never support the complete failure that the Buhari government
represents. That was why the Party joined the Coalition of United
Political Parties and has actively participated in all its activities
leading up to the emergence of Ex-VP Atiku Abubakar as coalition
candidate. KOWA Party remains an integral part of the CUPP and cannot,
just a few days to the presidential election, commit such an
irresponsible and ridiculous volteface to endorse a government we have
consistently criticised for the aggravated backwardness, insecurity,
unprecedented corruption, arrogant nepotism, cluelessness and cabal
domination as attested to even by Mrs. Aisha Buhari, the president’s
wife. KOWA Party is standing on solid abutments of honor and ideological
integrity that can’t just be rubbished so brazenly and shamelessly. We
therefore strongly and unequivocally dissociate the Party from the
endorsement of President Muhammadu Buhari”. Responding to a
telephone interview on the matter when he was asked what would become of
the One Hundred Million Naira each allegedly collected by the endorsing
Parties, Comrade Mark Adebayo who also doubles as the Party’s Chief
Executive Officer as enshrined in the Party’s Constitution responded
that “Well, if anybody collected One Hundred Million Naira to
endorse Buhari he or she did so at his/her own peril, not on behalf of
KOWA Party. Those who gave the money knows who collected such cursed
money from them and know how to recover their corrupted money. No such
amount or any amount for that matter for such shameful action was
credited into KOWA Party’s account. The creditors must surely know who
their debtor is”. Asked if he had confirmed from the national
chairman if he was involved in the endorsement, Comrade Mark retorted “I
don’t have to confirm anything from him. He knows he doesn’t have such
constitutional authority or power nor mandate to commit the Party in
that manner without prior and official consultations and official
approval by the National Executive Committee of the Party at least. And,
I know him well enough to affirm that he won’t violate the Party’s
constitutional in such a flagrant way. Saidu Bobboi, to the best of my
knowledge, won’t do such a thing. We are close and have been political
allies for years. I consider it fake news”, he insisted. When
asked if it comes out eventually true that the Party’s national chairman
actually committed the Party to the endorsement without consulting with
the Party’s leaders and members, Comrade Mark said “When we get to that
bridge we will cross it. I can’t proceed from a point of view of
assumptions presently. But, if in the unlikely event of it being true,
there are internal Party mechanisms for dealing with such serious
infractions and we shall apply them fully and uncompromisingly. But up
till now he hasn’t confirmed such despite several questions being 
raised by many concerned and agitated Party members, leaders and
critical stakeholders”. “All KOWA Party agents across the
country are hereby directed to proceed with earlier directives to work
for KOWA Party National Assembly candidates on Saturday February 16 and
the CUPP consensus presidential candidate same day. We can’t kill our
Party this way”, the Party’s National Secretary concluded. 