By Ismaila Chafe Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari has continued to receive congratulatory messages over his re-election from more African leaders across the continent. Mallam Garba Shehu, President’s spokesman in
a statement in Abuja on Wednesday, said,  King Mohammed VI of the
Kingdom of Morocco, in a message, described President Buhari’s victory
as an affirmation of the level of confidence Nigerians had in their
President. The King, he said, promised to work with President Buhari to advance the interests of both countries. ‘‘Your
re-election is a testimony to the level of confidence that you enjoy
among the people of Nigeria, attributable to your wisdom, experience in
politics, sense of engagement and devotion to the service and the
protection of the interests of the country especially as they relate to
the prosperity, wellbeing and security of your people.’’ King Mohammed
VI said in his congratulatory message. The
monarch expressed satisfaction with the existing cordial and fraternal
African relationship linking the two leaders, their people, and nations. He
reiterated his determination to work in concert with President Buhari
to reinforce the mutually beneficial relationship between Morocco and
Nigeria and to give it a new impetus to serve as a model on the African
continent. Also, President Alpha
Conde of Guinea who extended his congratulations, described the
re-election of President Buhari as a dose of hope for the West African
region. Conde expressed confidence that the cordial relations between Nigeria and Guinea would continue to get better. Earlier,
President Mahamadou Issoufou of Niger, who was the first leader to call
President Buhari minutes after the Independent National Electoral
Commission (INEC) declared him the winner of the 2019 presidential
elections, said he looked forward to working with the Nigerian leader to
further strengthen Nigeria-Niger relations. The
Presidential aide revealed Buhari had also received congratulatory
messages from Presidents Nana Koffi-Addo of Ghana and Macky Sall of
Senegal.(NAN) APC - 402, 961 PDP - 138, 484 APC - 285, 894 PDP - 218, 207 