By Stanley Nwanosike Enugu – Mr Samuel Obiefuna, the Coordinator of Disability Policy and Empowerment Consult in Enugu state, has commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for giving due consideration to Persons Living With Disabilities (PLWDs) in all the electoral process. Obiefuna made the commendation in Enugu on Monday during a voter education and sensitisation forum organised by the commission for PLWDs. He said that the commission had proved to be building an all-inclusive electoral process with the release of the PLWDs active participation in electoral process document. “This document has become a motivating factor and power for every disabled person,’’ he said. Mr George Eze thanked INEC for providing magnifying glasses and braille ballot papers for the visually impaired and blind persons to enable them to vote during the polls. He said, “We appreciate the preference and special treatment the commission has given us in this dispensation, including organising sensitisation workshops for us.’’ Mrs Rose Ezeugwu, the Training Officer of the commission, said in her paper, entitled, “Ensuring the participation of PLWDs in 2019 general elections,” that it was paramount to include all citizens in the electoral process. Ezeugwu said that the commission had provided innovation in the electoral process for PLWDs, including the development of poster (ECB30E) designed to guide them on how to vote. She urged them to reciprocate the efforts of the commission by coming out en masse to participate in the polls. “Both the electoral personnel and equipment are available and will be there to assist you to exercise your franchise without violating the secrecy of the ballot in anyway,’’ she said. Mrs Anthonia Ezeh, the Head of the Unit for PLWDs in the commission, said the aim of the workshop was to sensitise the PLWDs on the need to fully participate in the electoral process. She also said that the workshop was meant to further discuss the role of the commission in ensuring the participation of PLWDs and to educate them on how to cast valid vote.’’ Dr Emeka Ononamadu, the state Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), urged them to participate actively in all aspects of the electoral process. Ononamadu, who was represented by Chief Abuon Edor, Head of Voter Education and Publicity, decried the failure of the PLWDs to run for political offices in the upcoming elections. He urged them to register with political parties and vie for political offices in 2023. He said that the commission had made adequate provisions for them to vote during the general elections without any hitches, describing them as very important citizens. “So, we will give them special preference before other electorate on the day of election,’’ the REC said. (NAN)