By Kazeem Akande and Uchediunor Augusta Lagos – Some transport operators in Lagos State on Thursday said they were not part of the arrangement with the Nigeria Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) to reduce transport fares during the Feb. 23 elections. The operators, including including Primero Transport Services
Limited, operator of the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) and Lagos State
Waterways Authority (LASWA),  spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria
(NAN) on Thursday in Lagos. According to them, instead, what we agreed on is to make our services
available during the elections in line with the Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) signed with the electoral body. NAN reports that NURTW had on Feb. 20 announced a 50 per cent
reduction in transport fares on all routes for passengers that would be
travelling for the elections. Commenting, Mr Oluwadamilola Emanuel, the Managing Director, Lagos
State Waterways Authority (LASWA), said that there was no slash in the
fares of both boats and ferry services. “This is a private business owned by individuals; we are only regulating their operations to maintain the laid down standard. “But, we will ensure there are availability of boats to convey people
on election duties to their various locations during the elections,’’
he said. Also,  Mr Role Odukale, the Chairman, Bus Rapid Transport Association
of Nigeria (BTAN),  said that the association was not involved in the
fare slash for the elections. “We don’t want to be partisan, but the plan is on to make our services available to those on election duty,’’  Odukale added. Commenting, Mr Fola Tinubu, the Managing Director, Primero Transport
Services Limited, Operators of Bus Rapid Transit (BRT), told NAN that
the organisation was not involved in the 50 per cent slash of fares for
passengers. “We are non-partisan and we will not be involved in such exercise. “We will continue to provide a world class services for Lagos residents,’’ he said. Also, Mr Jerry Oche, Lagos Railway District Manager (RDM), said that 
there would be no slash in its fare for passengers travelling by train
during elections. Oche said that the corporation has no such plan of reducing fares during the elections. “There is no plan by the corporation to slash the price of the train,
but we will give effective service to those that will need our
services,’’ he said. According to him, the corporation has cancelled the Lagos-Kano trips
as the Federal Government had declared Friday as public holiday. In a related development, the Lagos State Council of NURTW, said that
the 50 per cent reduction in transport fare for passengers travelling
outside the state for elections was part of its social responsibility. Its State Chairman, Alhaji Tajudeen Agbede, said the union  members
plying inter-state routes have been directed to implement the 50 per
cent discount to travellers. “Our members have been directed, especially those plying inter-state
routes, to give a 50 per cent discount to those travelling out of Lagos
for the elections,” he said at end of the union’s State Executives
Meeting. The NURTW chairman said the directive was to cushion the effect of last weekend postponement. He said it would encourage people to travel to their various
destinations where they were registered to exercise their franchise. “To enjoy the 50 per cent discount, a prospective traveller is
expected to show his/her Permanent Voter Card (PVC) to the driver before
he/she would be allowed to enjoy the discount. “This is the directive from the national headquarters of our union. “It will be carried out in all inter-state parks in the country which
is part of our contribution to the electoral process,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Arik Air has also
reduced its flight fare to N16, 000 to ensure that eligible voters
travelled to cast their votes. (NAN)