Awka – Mr Godwin Ezeemo , a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic  Party (PDP)  has called on electorates in the state to be politically active by voting for candidates of the party during the general elections. Ezeemo made the call in Awka on Monday during a rally organized by the party to solicit for votes from electorate. The PDP chieftain explained that voting by the electorates was a civic responsibility that sustained democracy in any society. “Voting in any election is a national service. I call on all eligible
voters who are yet to collect their Permanent Voter Cards to do so
before the deadline and those with their own to come out and vote. “Do not stay at home and later condemn the government in power. Be
politically active and shun the habit of being apolitical during
electioneering period. “Your active participation pays more than being lukewarm. “The power to elect quality leaders or recall non performing leader
is now and it is dependent on the electorate, so the time to act to save
Nigeria from collapsing is now,’’ Ezeemo said. In her contribution, Prof. Stella Okunna, an electorate at the event,
said that time has come for voters to take their future in their hands
by voting wisely to save the nation from collapsing. Okunna said that any government that had interest of the people
should be voted and urged all electorates to get their PVCs to be part
of the positive change in governance. Also speaking, Chief Joe-Martins Uzodike, a PDP faithful appealed to
voters in the state to come out en-mass to cast their vote for PDP
because the party had a programme that would rejuvenate the nation and
turned its economic fortunes positively again. “Do not make the mistake of your lives by voting for a party that does not have your interest. PDP is the answer,’’ he said. Mr Okechukwu Nzeako a PDP candidate for Njikoka 2 State Constituency
in Anambra House of Assembly, urged the voters to return PDP back to
power. He said that PDP was the only political party with a human friendly
manifesto and urged the voters to collect their PVCs and elect their
preferred candidates. Mr Valentine Ayika, another PDP candidate vying for
 Njikoka/Anaocha/Dunukofia Federal Constituency urged voters to cast
their votes for PDP for lasting progress. “PDP had managed the affairs of the country for 16 years and the
progress achieved during their era cannot be compared to what is being
experienced in the country today,’’ he said. He urged the electorates to avoid the mistake of voting another party that would draw back the progress of the country.