It is a good development that the former ruling party,
the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has come back to reckoning. This is
a party that was founded to promote the unity of Nigeria under a
pan-Nigeria platform. The party that is home to great Nigerians like
Olusegun Obasanjo, late Solomon Lar, late Abubakar Rimi, former Governor
of Kano State, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar and other notables
like late Dr. Alex Ekwueme, General Ibrahim Babangida, and most of the
top members of today’s ruling All Progressives Congress. It is
equally a good sign for Nigerians who have had a rough time under the
leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari that a humane and detribalized
Nigerian, in the person of Atiku Abubakar, a good economic manager is
the presidential candidate of the resurgent PDP.  The good thing about
Atiku’s candidacy is that at last, an alternative to the Buhari brand of
leadership has emerged in the person of a man who is many things rolled
into one, and in whom Nigerians will find the qualities they are
looking for, in management and leadership. Before it lost the
2015 presidential election, the PDP was a party that did not lack
capable men and women to engage in a presidential contest. In fact, it
could be said that the PDP has always been star-studded. Today, however
the situation is slightly different as a political party might have star
personalities but only a few would have the leadership quality to lead a
country like Nigeria that has clearly faltered in many aspects of
development. Atiku Abubakar, the Waziri of Adamawa and a Nigerian
of fine credentials comes in as a breath of fresh air both from the
resurgent PDP and from the Northern part of the country that has been
poorly represented by the clannish administration of President Muhammadu
Buhari. For the APC’s change of duplicity to be replaced by a
real change under a man ready, eager and yearning for service to be
actualized, the APC has to run the incompetent and divisive government
it has been running under Buhari since May 2015, which openly denied
responsibility for the promises it made to Nigerians during the campaign
for the 2015 election. There are many reasons why Atiku
Abubakar is the right person for the people of Nigeria at this time
following the uninspiring leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari. First,
Atiku Abubakar has a blueprint of governance. The former Vice President
who enjoys the company of educated people and is an intellectual in his
own right has prepared a policy document with his vision encapsulated
in JOBS – Jobs, Opportunity, Being United and Security. In it, he set
out his vision of the developmental challenges facing the country and
how he will tackle them, sector by sector when he becomes president. Second,
and related to the above, on the 25th of April 2018, Atiku Abubakar
outlined his governance and political agenda to a select and
distinguished international audience of foreign diplomats, Nigerians,
politicians, academics and leading businessmen at the international
think tank, Chatham House in London, the UK. In the lecture titled,
‘’The Importance of strengthening States’ Economic Management Systems’,
Atiku presented an outline of a cooperative and all-inclusive type of
democratic government in which the states and the Federal Government
would be partners in a transparent system built on prudent economic
management, as against the present situation of master-servant
relationship where the states get monthly handouts from the central
government! According to Atiku and experts who have reviewed the
lecture, this system of national economic management will liberate the
creative energies of the States and encourage them to mobilize and
better utilize resources for development in areas where they have
comparative advantages. Third, through his anti-corruption
crusade for which Nigerians are grateful but which has unfairly targeted
mostly opposition politicians nationwide, the APC government has worked
hard to taint most PDP members. On this score, Atiku Abubakar has been
vindicated by no less a person than Prof Itse Sagay, czar of the
president’s anti graft panel. On the contrary, the corruption and
scandals of person we have today appears to be Muhammadu Buhari, going
by the many corruption scandals involving many members of his close
circle of trusted aides and functionaries and the fact that in most
cases, he has failed to discipline and sanction them. On the
issue of corruption, the former Vice President is only a victim of
allegations, hearsay and suspicion because of his wealth and investment.
These allegations are trite as none has been proven in any Court of
Law, even when Atiku himself has gone to Court to challenge the
allegations. And when one talks of Atiku’s immense wealth, one has not
seen the name of the Waziri Adamawa among Africa’s richest men or even
the list of the World’s wealthiest rather Atiku could make the short
list of those who have impacted humanity the most. Atiku’s
investments are the Atiku Group of Schools in Yola, capital of Adamawa
State and the development institution known as the American University
of Nigeria (AUN), also in Yola. The AUN is the first
development-oriented institution of higher learning in Africa. Atiku
also established Adama Beverages Limited in Yola, which makes potable
water and fruit drinks, as well as Rico Gado Animal Nutrition which
makes feed for all classes of livestock. The common trend that runs
through all of these investments of the former Vice President is that
they provide employment to thousands of Nigerians directly and
indirectly, provides quality education, and provides skills and
entrepreneurship as well as innovation, which is the catalyst of
development. Fourth, Atiku aside from being a foremost investor
and entrepreneur is a good economic manager. As Vice President under
former President Olusegun Obasanjo, Atiku was the Chairman of the
National Economic Council which started a revolution of sorts in the
management of the national economy. Under the Obasanjo/Abubakar
administration, Nigeria did well in introducing measures and
implementing policies that gave the entire national economy a lease of
life and breath of fresh air and created jobs and regular income for the
majority of Nigerians. Several industries and companies, both local and
foreign started business in Nigeria while those who had been in the
country before 1999, expanded their businesses, and modernized their
production processes. If we reflect on the fact that the PDP left
office in 2015, for Muhammadu Buhari of the APC to takeover, and since
then, 13 million jobs have been lost and hundreds of businesses
collapsed or relocated outside the country, it would be clear what a
disaster the Buhari government has been. It is therefore a matter of
urgency for Nigerians to elect in the February 16 presidential
elections, a man used to business and entrepreneurship and who gets
things to work to replace Muhammadu Buhari, who clearly has failed to
get his thoughts and bearing together since May 2015. Finally, a
unique quality which sets Atiku apart from Buhari and which shows that
Atiku is better for Nigeria in 2019 going forward, in view of the
present sorry state of national integration in Nigeria, is that in
Atiku’s thinking, there is only One Nigeria; whose citizens without
exception deserves equal access to the good things of life. The way the
former Vice President runs his businesses and his large family is such
that there is no place for tribalism, no ethnicity, no nepotism, no
exclusion or 97 versus 5 per cent! No one near him is made to feel
unwanted, a stranger or an outsider which are all hallmarks of the
persona and government of Muhammadu Buhari. Nigerians need a break from the present choking system put in place by the APC/Buhari misdaventure. •Okoroma writes from Abuja. 