By Douglas Okoro Abakaliki – The National Orientation Agency (NOA), on Monday held the South-East multi stakeholders dialogue on peaceful, credible and violence free elections in Abakaliki, the Ebonyi capital. The pre-election conference was designed to equip, sensitise, educate
and mobilise the people for full participation in the forthcoming
general elections. The dialogue session was also aimed at bringing the various
stakeholders to brainstorming  on ways to make the election peaceful,
credible, transparent, violence free and fair. The dialogue session was attended by stakeholders drawn from
political parties, religious groups, women organisations, security
agencies and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) among
others. Dr Garba Abari, the Director General of NOA, who spoke, said that the
dialogue was part of efforts to sensitise, educate and mobilise the
citizens to participate in the electoral process. He said that the 2015 general elections presented a number of
challenges and noted that the dialogue session would provide a platform
for stakeholders to address them. “Voter apathy, low turnout of electorate, intimidation, ballot box
snatching and other unwholesome practices characterised the previous
elections. “The electoral body, the police, political parties and the electorate
must be determined and do the needful so that the outcome of the
elections will not only be credible, free and fair, but will be adjudged
one of the best conducted elections in the history of Nigeria ,” he
said. He said that the agency had fully mobilised its staff in the 36
states of the federation and Abuja, covering the 774 local government
areas in the country to carry out mass voter education and sensitisation
campaigns. He said : “Democracy has come to stay and we must protect it by
ensuring that political parties and other stakeholders create an
atmosphere that will increase citizens’ confidence in the electoral
process. ” The INEC which is the nation’s electoral umpire is doing everything possible to ensure the success of the polls. “The security agencies are also training and re-training their
personnel to protect lives and property during and after the elections. “We expect the political parties to equally embark on voter education
for their members on how to vote correctly, giving the number of
political parties that will feature on the ballot paper. ” Meanwhile, Prof. Godswill Obioma, INEC Resident Electoral
Commissioner (REC)  for Ebonyi who presented a paper , said that it was
the duty of the various stakeholders to ensure peaceful and credible
conduct of the elections. He said that INEC was a neutral body committed to conducting seamless
polls and maintained that every strategic  arrangement had been put in
place to make the general elections peaceful and credible. “The 2019 general elections in Ebonyi will be the best elections ever
conducted in Ebonyi and every plan has been concluded to ensure the
success of the polls ,”  he said. Mr Muhammad Mustafa, Ebonyi Commissioner of Police, said that police
and other security operatives were collaborating to ensure that security
of every resident was guaranteed before, during and after the
elections. (NAN)