By Emmanuel Mogbede Abuja – The Ondo Mandate Group has called on national leadership of All Progressives Congress (APC) to dissolve the state executives of the party, saying they are working against the party’s interest. Mr Olugbenga Bojuwomi, Publicity Secretary of the group made the call while speaking with newsmen at the party’s national secretariat on Thursday in Abuja. He alleged that Gov. Rotimi Akerediolu worked against President Muhammadu Buhari and APC candidates in the Feb. 23 Presidential and National Assembly election. He alleged that the governor has formed a faction called Aketi Group to actualise his desire. Bojuwomi said this situation has divided the Ondo chapter of the APC into segments, adding that it was unfortunate that the APC national leadership failed to listen to the group’s earlier alarm on the anti-party activities of the group ahead of the election. “We have raised several allegations against the Governor, the pockets of violence that were recorded in his home town Owo on the election day against APC loyalists confirmed our allegations. “While voting, Akeredolu was sited voting for PDP Presidential Candidate and his Action Alliance (AA) National Assembly Candidates, that is why AA won in his unit and Local Government Area respectively. “It is evidently clear that the Ondo State Governor and Ondo APC Chairman Ade Adetimehin have no regard for the APC leadership and the Presidency. “They have fought Buhari to a standstill in Ondo State, we hereby call for the immediate dissolution of the Executive,” he said. He noted that it is clear that a few APC stalwart were loyal to the APC and Buhari in Ondo State, going by the trend of the election results. He added that it is obvious that Sen. Ajayi Boroffice is a strongman of Ondo politics, in spite of the huddles, rigours and threat from political stakeholders toward his re-election bid. He further added that the video evidence where the Ondo APC Chairman was campaigning for all his AA candidates was everywhere in Social Media. He said a copy of the video has also been sent to the APC National Chairman, Mr Adams Oshiomhole.(NAN)  By Ibrahim Bello Birnin Kebbi - The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared President… Idowu Gabriel Ado-Ekiti - The Ekiti State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has…