By Tukur Muntari Kano – The Dangote Tomato Processing Company, Kadawa, Kano State, which suspended operation more than a year ago, is to resume operation within the next two weeks. The Managing Director of the company, Alhaji Abdulkarim Kaita, gave
the assurance in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in
Kano on Saturday. “We hope to resume processing of fresh tomato in the next two weeks. This is our plan, God willing,” he said. NAN reports that the company initially stopped working following the
outbreak of a pest, Tuta Absoluta, which ravaged most tomato farms in
Kano and other states that produced the commodity about two years ago. However, when it resumed production in late 2017, the company was
forced to suspend operation again due to non availability of fresh
tomato to process, as a result of some challenges faced by tomato
growers in the state. He said the company had already met with tomato farmers in the state,
where they discussed on how to ensure steady supply of the commodity to
the company.
Kaita said during the recent visit to the company by the Governor of the
Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefele and Minister of
Agriculture and Rural Development, Chief Audu Ogbeh, they assured that
the Federal Government would place total ban on importation of tomato
paste into the country. “During the recent visit to the company by the two officials, they
assured us that the Federal Government will ensure full implementation
of tomato policy in the country. “We hope the government will keep to its promise in order to support
tomato growers to encourage them to remain in the business,” he said. He also urged the Kano State Government to fulfill the promise it
made to tomato growers to enable them produce the commodity in large
scale. “During the recent visit, the Federal Government officials were
accompanied by the state Deputy governor, Dr Nasiru Gawuna and he
promised that the State Government will support the tomato farmers.” NAN reports that the company has the capacity to process 120 tonnes of fresh tomato daily.