By Chijioke Okoronkwo Abuja – Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has recounted how Pastor Enoch Adeboye, the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) prayed for his protection night before the Chopper crashed in Kabba, Kogi. Osinbajo’s spokesman’s Laolu Akande, in a statement on Monday in
Abuja, said that the vice president gave a testimony at a thanksgiving
service held at the RCCG, City of Grace, Lokoja, Kogi State on Sunday. A helicopter carrying Osinbajo and his entourage had on Saturday crash-landed in Kabba; everybody on board came out unscathed. “On Friday, we went to (RCCG) camp; usually, I attend our Holy Ghost service. “We came in very late from Akwa Ibom State. In fact, we arrived just
in time for the grace at the end of the service; thereafter, our daddy
in the Lord, (G.O) Pastor Adeboye, wanted to speak to me.’’ Osinbajo said that Adeboye asked him how things were going; the
campaign activities, among others, and he explained including some of
the challenges encountered. The vice president said that Adeboye then said he would to pray for him. He said that a prayer that turned out to be very interesting “because usually as you know, he doesn’t pray for long. “He said Lord God Almighty, I want you to protect this man’, he said it three times and paused, then he continued. “You know how very dear he is to my heart. I want you to protect him.” “I found it very funny that he repeated it several times and then he prayed for favour and other things. “So, when the crash happened, immediately it dawned on me that the Lord God had led him to say that very special prayer. “And the Lord God Almighty delivered us in accordance with His word
that, even when 10,000 fall by our side, no harm whatsoever will come
near us.’’ “I just want to thank the Almighty God for His grace and mercy that
has been so abundant in my life and in all of our lives who are here,’’
he said. Osinbajo earlier called up members of his entourage who were with him
in the Chopper and who were in the church to join him at the altar. They were Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Stephen Ocheni, Mr Femi Osinbajo, the vice president’s elder brother. Others are Akande, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Office of the Vice President, Dr Biodun Adelowo, Personal Physician; Mr Doyin Adetuberu, Security Officer and Ayoola Oladunni,  Aide-De-Camp. He also called Sen. Babafemi Ojudu, Special Adviser and Amb.
Abdullahi Gwary, Senior Special Assistant, Foreign Affairs/Protocol ,
although both of them were not in the service. A thankful Osinbajo said it would have a colossal loss to the family if he and his elder brother had died in the crash. “This is my older brother, the same father, same mother. Our father passed on long ago, but our mother is alive. “If both of us had lost our lives on the same day, that would have been an absolute tragedy, but God saved that from happening. “We are truly grateful to the Almighty God and we bless the name of
the Lord. And for all of you who are rejoicing with us today, your homes
will be filled with rejoicing. “You will not know tragedy, you will not know harm, all the days of your lives will be filled with rejoicing,” he prayed. (NAN)