By Hawa Lawal Abuja – Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN) has drummed support for President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election bid, ahead  of Saturday’s presidential election. This was the resolution of the National Executives and State Chairmen
of the association in the 36 states and FCT on Tuesday in Abuja. RIFAN President, Aminu Goroyo, told the News Agency of Nigeria, (NAN)
that each of the 12.2 million members of the association had pledged
their support for President Buhari. He said the endorsement became imperative in view of the efforts the
president had  made to drive the nation’s economy through mechanised
agriculture. “With the enthusiasm to promote good governance and corrupt free
Nation, RIFAN resolved to support the re-election of President Muhamadu
Buhari come Saturday with massive votes. According to Goroyo, the re-election of the president is to ensure Nigeria’s self-sufficiency in food production. He also said the step would help in moving the nation from overdependence on crude oil to non-oil economy. “We are all speaking with one voice, exhibit unalloyed commitment in
making sure that bulk of our votes go for President Buhari to achieve
the desired transformation for the country. Goroyo said the President’s commitment to agriculture through various
schemes was an indication that Nigeria will soon end  challenges of
hunger, poverty, food security and unemployment. He said before this administration, the country was a net importer of rice to the detriment of the economy and the farmers. “The country’s dependence on food imports in the past was hurting
local production, reducing farmers’ welfare and contributing to
increasing unemployment. “The difference is very clear now as the rice import has reduced to 5
per cent and it is only done through the informal process,”he said. He said that in 2015, Nigerians spent not less than N1bn on rice
consumption, adding that while spending had drastically reduced,
consumption had increased because of increased local production. He urged Nigerians to give adequate support to the Buhari administration by casting their votes for him on Saturday. (NAN)