By Ahmed Ubandoma Abuja – Wife of the President, Aisha Buhari, has met with members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Women and Youths(WAY) Presidential Campaign team to re-strategise for the success of President Muhammadu Buhari in the forthcoming presidential election. The meeting which held at the Presidential Villa on Sunday night in
Abuja had in attendance the Chairman of Central Working Committee of APC
women and youths, retired Gen. Buba Marwa, among others. Mrs Buhari commended the efforts of the campaign team in galvanising support for the re-election of President Buhari. She also expressed her gratitude to the team for embarking on a
door-to-door campaign strategy by informing Nigerians on the success
recorded by the APC administration, especially in the agricultural
sector and the fight against insurgency. She assured the delegation of her commitment to ensure greater
participation of women and youths during before and after election. Responding, Gen. Marwa expressed appreciation to the wife of the President for her continued support to the campaign team. “ This is the first time in the history of electioneering campaign a
women and youths presidential campaign team was launched in our country. “ This is because women and youths are key to the success of any
election because they form eighty percent of our voting population,’’ he
said. He said the campaign team had embarked on campaign tour of the
northern and southern parts of Nigeria to galvanise support for the
re-election of President Buhari. Marwa assured the wife of the president of their determination to
further engage their members on a door-to-door and a grassroot
mobilisation to ensure the victory of APC in the Feb. 16 Presidential
election. Former Inspector-General of Police and member of the campaign team,
Suleiman Abba, said, “ we will use every opportunity to mobilise and
sensitise Nigerians on the achievements of the APC administration”. Abba emphasised the need for the campaign team to engage media in the campaign for adequate publicity. He assured the wife of the president of their readiness to educate
Nigerians on the dangers of electing the opposition Peoples Democratic
Party (PDP). “ We will continue to meet the press and let me assure you that we
will not relent in our campaign, we will let the people know the dangers
of electing PDP again,’’ he said. Former Deputy Governor of Plateau, Mrs Pauline Tallen, said the
campaign team had recorded huge success in the states visited, so far. Tallen said a mammoth crowd greeted the campaign team in every state it visited. According to her, that was a sign of love and appreciation by women and youths to the achievements of the governing APC. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the meeting was also
attended by the wife of Nasarawa State Governor Mairo Al-Makura, Senior
Special Assistant to the President on Administration Dr Hajo Sani.