ONITSHA (Press Release) – The International Society
for Civil Liberties & the Rule of Law (Intersociety) is demanding
from the central Government of Muhammadu Buhari and Yemi Osinbajo and
 two categories of the perpetrators a total compensation or reparatory
payment of $4.1b. The $4.1b payment under demand is for the
vicarious and direct involvement of the named Government and the
security chiefs and other public office holders involved in the
mindless, wicked, ruthless, brutal, rapacious, genocidal, ethnocidal,
atrocious, grisly, unlawful and indefensible and inexcusable massacre of
no fewer than 480 unarmed and defenceless citizens and injuring of over
500 others during the military massacre operations in Eastern Nigeria
between 30th August 2015 and 14th September 2017. While $3b of
the $4.1b under demand represents general damages and costs inflicted or
incurred by the victims of the massacre operations, $1.1b represents
the economic losses incurred during the massacre and its aftermath by
the People of Southeast Region and Igbo Delta owing to widespread
disruption of the economic activities occasioned by military and police
insecurity and out-station and in-station police and military corruption
including roadblock and custodial extortions. The $1.1b or N336b
should be refunded by the present central Government of Nigeria to the
five States in the Southeast Region and Delta State using the following
sharing formulas:  30% to Anambra State Government, 30% to Abia State
Government, 15% to Imo State Government, 12.5% to Enugu State
Government, 12.5% to Ebonyi State Government and 5% to the Government of
Delta State. Intersociety’s demand stems from the fact that we
are also a victim in the named military massacre. For purpose of
clarity, the United Nations Declaration on Basic Principles of Justice
for Victims of Crimes and Abuse of  Office, 1985, defines atrocity
crimes victims as “persons, who, individually or collectively, have
suffered harm including physical or mental injury, emotional suffering,
economic loss or substantial impairment of their fundamental rights,
through acts or omissions that are in violation of criminal laws
operative within member-States, including those laws prohibiting abuse
of power. The victims include, where necessary, the immediate family or
dependant of the direct victim and persons who have suffered harm in
intervening to assist people in distress or to prevent victimisation”. It
is also the strong recommendation of Intersociety that the named
perpetrators must face life jail and other hash sentences or sanctions
within Nigerian borders or at regional and international borders. No
perpetrator shall be sentenced to less than 25 years and above life
jail. Intersociety opposes death penalty in all its ramifications. There
shall also be national written apology from the central Government of
Muhammadu Buhari and Yemi Osinbajo to the People of Eastern Nigeria
especially the Igbo Race and Nigerians in general. The national apology
shall subsequently be transformed into a “National Sorry Day” and a
remembrance day to immortalize the slain or crime scene and off crime
scene dead victims. Other Recommendations •Intersociety is
calling on the central Government of Nigeria to fish out and bring all
the named perpetrators in the military massacre operations in Eastern
Nigeria to book. Those still in the service or perpetrator-members of
the Nigerian Military and the Nigeria Police Force (i.e. COAS and
others) must be identified and weeded out of the Armed Forces and the
Police, arrested and prosecuted. Continued failure of the named
Government to do so clearly amounts to breach of the Int’l Law
Principles of Complementarity & No Impunity and forfeiture of such
sovereignty rights before the international justice system. In law and
criminology, such horrendous crimes are not statute barred or have no
expiring dates. •The International justice organisations and
concerned others, on the other hand, should now or later do the needful
in respect of Muhammadu Buhari, Yemi Osinbajo, Wiiliam Obiano and Victor
Okezie Ikpeazu. The named quadruplet in the atrocity crimes can also be
prosecuted in Nigeria when they must have lost their office immunity. •Nigerian
Government must end its brutal crackdown; likewise physical, structural
and cultural violence and persecution of People of the Igbo Nation in
Nigeria or any part thereof. All forms of hate and discriminatory
policies against the People of the Nation-State in Nigeria including
“terror stigmatization,” selective enforcement of the law and racial
profiling must be discontinued and abolished. •Law Enforcement
and Rule of Law in Nigeria must be evenly or uniformly enforced
irrespective of ethnic, religious, economic and cultural origins and
affiliations of those citizens found or suspected to have been found to
be conflict with the criminal laws of Nigeria. •The Federal
Government of Nigeria is strongly called upon to de-proscribe and delist
from its so-called “terror list” the leading nonviolent and unarmed
pro-Biafra group; vindictively and racially proscribed and labelled a
“terror group” on 17th September 2017 for sole but failed purpose of
retroactively evading or escaping from the horrendous crimes perpetrated
against the group, its members and supporters and other citizens of the
Judeo-Christian People (Igbo) of Nigeria. There shall also be immediate
decriminalization of members of the group and their lawful activities. •The
Attorney General of Nigeria is specifically urged to file motions for
discontinuation of all ongoing pretrial and trial (nolle prosequi) of
all members of the group vindictively arrested and detained or
languishing in various police and SSS detention facilities or prison
custodies across the country. They include those spuriously accused of
“terrorism and terrorism financing” or “treason and treasonable felony.”
The Attorneys General of States jurisdictionally handling such
spuriously slammed charges in their States are also called upon to
follow suit or be directed accordingly by the appropriate authorities. •All
military roadblocks in Igbo Land or Southeast Region and Igbo Delta,
numbering not less than 100 and their police counterparts, numbering not
less than 3000 as at January 2019 must permanently be dismantled; with
military and police personnel manning them withdrawn and moved out of
the Region. •Intersociety is also calling for total
discontinuation and end of police and military roadblock extortions and
commercialization of criminal investigation and other police duties in
Igbo Land. •The Nigeria Police Force must revert and return to
professionalism and intelligence policing including mental and
electronic policing intelligence or mental-machine policing intelligence •There
shall be a presidential directive by the central Government of Retired
Major Gen Muhammadu Buhari and Prof Yemi Osinbajo, which says it is
fighting corruption, to the authorities of the Nigerian Military, the
Nigeria Police Force and Paramilitary formations operating in the
Southeast Region and Igbo Delta to return the whopping N100b criminal or
extortion proceeds to coffers of the Governments of Anambra, Abia, Imo,
Enugu, Ebonyi and Delta States. •In returning the criminal
proceeds, the authorities of the Nigeria Police Force shall return a
total of N78.02b extorted, the Nigerian Military N6b and the affected or
named Paramilitary formations (Custom, FRSC, NDLEA and NAFDAC) N16b;
totalling N100b or $330m. •The percentage ratios for the return
shall be 30% to Anambra State Government, 30% to Abia State Government,
15% to Imo State Government, 12.5% to Enugu State Government, 12.5% to
Ebonyi State Government and 5% compensation to the Government of Delta
State. •The present Buhari and Osinbajo Government shall issue
further directives to the authorities of the Nigeria Police Force, the
Nigerian Military and the affected Paramilitary formations to fish out
the lists containing names of their officers and personnel posted to the
Southeast Region and road routes linking it between August 2015 and
December 2018. •The purpose of fishing out the names of officers
and personnel of the affected security agencies shall be to have the
N100b criminal proceeds deducted from their monetized remunerations
including pensions of those already retired; in addition to commensurate
deductions from the remunerations of the immediate past IGP; the COAS,
the Chief of Defense Staff, the Chief of Naval Staff and central heads
of the affected Paramilitary formations (Custom, FRSC, NDLEA and
NAFDAC). •The Governors of the Southeast and Delta State and
other top political office holders and leaders from the Region are
called upon to immediately and strongly rise to the occasion to
effectively checkmate the militarization and northernization of top
military, police and other critical security formations and command
structures in Igbo Land. Their present lopsided composition as
graphically represented in the table segment of this special report is
not only rejected and unacceptable but must also be reversed and
equitably reconstructed or rebalanced. •There shall be
constituted “an international criminal enquiry” by the United Nations
via its Security Council into the Nigerian Military Massacre Operations
in Eastern Nigeria (August 2015-September 2017) with a view to exposing
the atrocities, fishing out their in-service, out-service and ex-service
perpetrators and referring them to ICC or ad hoc UN or regional or
domesticated crimes tribunal(s) for trial under Chapter VII of the UN or
referral powers of the UN Security Council (UNSC). •At the
appointed or appropriate time, there shall also be constituted “Panel of
Enquiry into Military Rights Abuses & Violations in Southeast or
Eastern Nigeria,” covering August 2015-September 2017. The Panel of
Enquiry shall be set up by the Southeast or Eastern Governors Forum;
with legislative inputs (resolutions) from all the eight or five of the
eight States Houses of Assembly in the Region. •Members of the
international community especially the western democracies and the UN as
well as international human rights organizations are particularly
called upon to take diplomatic and other international justice notice of
the named perpetrators and their atrocity crimes for purpose of
declaring them “persona non gratae” including arrest and prosecution in
their respective countries or at regional and international borders. •The named perpetrators both retired and serving members of the
Nigerian security establishments and public office holders shall also be
slammed with appropriate international sanctions including being
blacklisted and made ineligible in all regional and international
military, policing and other security or diplomatic engagements
including corporate and individual or intergovernmental consultancies,
contracts, partnerships, exchange visits etc. Such sanctions shall be
invoked using international legal instruments like the Leahy Law of USA
1966 as amended; among other international deterrent measures. •Other
non judicial sanctions under recommendation against the perpetrators
include denial and withdrawal of visas from the perpetrators and their
families, freezing of their accounts and seizure or confiscation of
their assets abroad; exposing their cash and properties stashed abroad, 
if any, etc. •The apostles or advocates of  international
justice around the world including the “CIVITAS Maxima” of Switzerland
are again called upon to open global campaigns against the named
humanity or atrocity crimes’ perpetrators that would lead to their
arrests in foreign soils to face the named crimes against humanity
perpetrated by themselves or in their names or under their
authorization. •The perpetrators can arrested and charged
locally, regionally and internationally through the instruments of
municipal, active personality, passive personality and universal or
international criminal jurisdictions or sued through the instruments of
civil claimant litigations; such as the Torture Victims Protection Act
of 1992  of the United States of America, etc. Conclusion & Special Links By
the above, therefore, Intersociety is bringing to conclusion the
segmental releases of its three years research work titled above. We
hereby pronounce released, the full report (85 pages) and the victims’
album (62 pages). The report and its album version is already up and
running on our website: www.intersociety-ng.org. The link to the said
research-Special report is here: http://intersociety-ng.org/phocadownload/2019/under%20buhari%20and%20osinbajo%20many%20have%20gone%20and%20crippled%20for%20life%20in%20eastern%20nigeria.pdf Signed For: Int’l Society for Civil Liberties & the Rule of Law •Emeka Umeagbalasi, Principal Official/Board Chair •Obianuju Joy Igboeli, Head, Civil Liberties & Rule of Law Programme •Chinwe Umeche, Head, Democracy & Good Governance Programme •Chidimma Evan Udegbunam, Head, Campaign & Publicity Department