By Aminu Garko Minna – Commercial activities picked up after the postponement of the Presidential and National Assembly Elections, in Minna, Suleja and Bida Local Government Areas of Niger, the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports. NAN also reports that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had shifted Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections from Feb. 16 to Feb. 23. INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, had announced the postponement of the elections, after a meeting which began on Friday night and ended in early hours of Saturday. The commission also postponed the Governorship and House of Assembly, FCT Area Council elections from March 2 to March 9. Yakubu attributed the postponement of all the scheduled elections to logistic and operational problems. He said the postponement would afford the commission the opportunity to address the identified challenges in order to maintain the quality of Nigeria’s elections. NAN reports that in Bida, Minna and Suleja people were seen moving on with their daily activities. Malam Lukman Abubakar, a community leader at Sauka Huta in Minna, told NAN that the postponement would enable the commission to address some of the challenges. ‘‘It’s within the law for INEC to shift the election for a week to address identified logistics challenges.’’ “You can see for yourself, people here are already going on with their lawful businesses and there is calm everywhere. ‘‘There is no cause for alarm, l strongly believe it will give the electoral umpire (INEC) to further prepare for credible election that will be acceptable to all. ‘‘Historically this is not the first time election will be postponed in our country; in 2011 election was postponed when people were already casting their votes. ‘‘In 2015, election was postponed by six weeks; In all of these we came out stronger,’’ he said. Dr Bashir Yankuzu, The Chief Imam, Federal University of Technology, Minna, Central Mosque, also barred his mind on the development. He said: ‘‘although we are worried about this unfortunate postponement, we are aware that this was not the first time INEC postponed election. ‘‘What is giving us assurances this time around is that the Federal Government, as acknowledged by the commission, has given it all it needed for the exercise. ‘‘And, unlike in the 2015 when the reason for the postponement was not on readiness of INEC, but due to security reasons as advanced by the government. ‘‘This time it is INEC complaining of problems related to implementation. I believe one week should be enough to set things right. ‘‘My only wish is for commission to be bold and determine in exposing anybody or individual engaging in activities that could compromise the integrity of its job. ‘‘You can see commercial activities are going on smoothly in Minna and its environs. ‘‘I wish to encourage Nigerians not to be discouraged but to be more determined to fully participate in the electoral process for our collective good,’’ he said. In Bida, NAN reports that people are seen moving on with their day activities as most markets and petrol stations in the area open for business. Mr Abubakar Isa, a trader told NAN that ‘‘the postponement would enable the commission address some challenges for the conduct of transparent election.’’ NAN also reports that commercial motor cyclists were seen conveying passengers to different parts. In Suleja, normal activities had resumed as businesses opened and commuters boarded available vehicles to their destinations. A parent, Mr Maxwell Eze, said the postponement of the elections would affect school children who are on mid-term break. ‘‘The children are now on short term break occasioned by the Feb. 16 elections. ‘‘They are expected to resume on Tuesday, but the postponement has destabilised this plan. Some of them came from far places,’’ he added. Eze called on relevant authourities to address the children’s resumpt on time. (NAN)