You committed mass murder, slaughtered the faithful, indulged in genocide and supported ethnic cleansing. You impoverished my people, sacrificed young Leah Sharibu, locked up your enemies and tormenented the innocent. You persecuted my Church, bullied the weak, stole from the poor, destroyed the young and decimated the old. You shattered the upright, poured scorn on the righteous, despised my word and showed no mercy to the fatherless. You punished the widows, mocked the orphans, despised the weak and enslaved the poor. You destroyed the righteous, touched my annointed, dishonored my servants, ignored my word and did my Prophets harm. You
did all this and more in spite of my righteous anger and my holy word. I
sent many to warn you but but you hardened your heart and would not
listen. Many shed tears on account of your bestial wickedness and
unrelenting brutality yet you showed them no mercy. You humiliated them
before the world, you threw them into dungeons and you refused to
release them. They prayed to me and called on my name. I heard
their cry, I afflicted you with a strange disease and I sent you abroad
for 104 days. Yet you hardened your heart and would not listen. I
touched your tongue and caused you to speak gibberish and nonsense
before the world. Yet you hardened your heart and would not listen. I
made you collapse in your political rallies. Yet you hardened your heart
and would not listen. I took away your health, twisted your
mind and blighted your body, spirit and soul. Yet you hardened your
heart and would not listen. I ridiculed you before your people and made
you dance naked in the market place. Yet you hardened your heart and
would not listen. I made your Vice betray his faith, desecrate
his profession, forsake his calling and abandon his people and I caused
him to suffer many secret misfortunes and have two helicopter crashes in
the space of 7 months. Yet you hardened your heart and would not
listen. I warned you and sent you all these signals and signs
because I am a God of love and a God of mercy. Yet you continued to dare
and despise me and you hardened your heart and would not listen. Now
hear this: if you do not desist from your wicked ways and if you do not
stop troubling my people and persecuting my children worst will come. If
you do not let my people go and free them from the cruel bondage of
your vicious tyranny you will feel my full wrath and taste of my awesome
power. I am the Lord: I give life and I kill. None can stand against
me. Ask Pharaoh, Nebudchadnezzar, Herod and Sennacherub and consider
their end. In the next few weeks and months I will show you more
of my signs and wonders. Only this time around it will not just be a
warning. If you do not abandon your evil ways and if you do not
desist from doing that which you are planning to do during and after the
election, my judgement will be utterly devastating and it will be final
and irrevocable. I give life and I kill. I am a God of
vengeance. I hold the world together by the power of my word. I bring
Kings to their knees and I shatter the foundations of tyrants. I
am the Lord of the universe, the God of all flesh. I am the creator of
all that is and all that is to come: nothing is hidden from me, none can
stand against me and none can resist me in battle.