By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja
(Sundiata Post) – People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has alleged that President
Muhammadu Buhari’s presidency reeks of corruption. The party disclosed
this on Sunday in a statement signed by the National Publicity Secretary And Director,
Media & Publicity, PDP Presidential Campaign Organization, Kola
Ologbondiyan sent to Sundiata Post. The
statement reads in full: The People’s
Democratic Party (PDP) says President Muhammadu Buhari has failed his integrity
test and has no moral rectitude to pontificate on corruption, having entangled
himself and soiled his administration in corruption. The party
says if there is any person whose activities of corruption have become a threat
to the coming election, it is President Buhari, who is financing his campaign
with looted funds, while surrounding himself with politicians indicted for
corruption. The PDP, out
of respect for the Office of the President of Federal Republic of Nigeria, had
severally refrained from calling out President Buhari on his various
indictments for corruption even during his era as a military ruler. A clear
reading of Mr. President’s statement today shows that he is not yet aware that
Nigerians have decoded his mastery of concealments of corruption in his
Presidency and are no longer interested in his failed self-acclaimed fight
against corruption. President
Buhari presides over the most corrupt and incompetent administration in the
history of our nation, for which Nigerians are very eager to go to the polls on
Saturday to vote him out of office. If Mr.
President were to be aware, he would have discovered that his entire
surrounding reeks of moral, institutional and integrity corruption. But since
he has consistently claimed not to be aware of anything around him, it is
imperative to let him know that the fish in his pond is rotten from the head. Clinical
examples can be drawn from his campaign council. Nigerians are aware that not a
few members of this council have been indicted on malfeasance bordering on
corruption Is it not
strange therefore that President Buhari who wants Nigerians to perceive his
administration as fighting corruption, will cast a net into the ocean and bring
out only corrupt people to run his campaign? The truth is
that Nigerians have seen more than enough of the fake fight against corruption
and have come to a conclusion that President Buhari is merely paying lip
services to this fight. He has no intention to do it and even if he had the
opportunity to govern perpetually, he will never fight corruption. Rather than
seeking for sympathy votes, President Buhari should simply admit his failure in
governance and allow Nigerians to build their future by getting our nation
working again under the leadership of Atiku Abubakar. Signed: Kola
Ologbondiyan National
Publicity Secretary And Director,
Media & Publicity PDP
Presidential Campaign Organization