By Anita Eboigbe Abuja – Some Nigerian celebrities including Olubankole ‘Banky W’ Wellington, Emeka Ike, Desmond Elliot, Freedom ‘Mr Jollof’ Atsekpoyi and Shina Peller are vying for several elective positions as the 2019 polls close in. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the celebrities, contesting
under various political parties, are seeking mostly to represent their
constituencies in legislative positions. Singer and actor, Banky W, who is vying to represent Eti-Osa at the
Federal House of Representatives, has the most publicised celebrity
campaign on social media. He unveiled his plans to contest under the Modern Democratic Party
(MDP) on Nov. 10, 2018 with a social media announcing explaining the
need for young people to get involved in the electoral process. Sharing on his Instagram page @bankywellington, he said, “They said
we don’t have the money to run, we say our strength lies in our numbers.
They say we don’t have the structure, we say we will attempt to build
it.” Following the announcement, other celebrities, including his wife
actress, Adesua Etomi-Wellington have pledged their support massively,
urging other young people to do same. Campaign concerts are held in the
place of rallies. Nollywood actor and filmmaker, Elliot announced on Dec. 10, 2018 that
he was seeking re-election in Surulere Constituency 1 of Lagos State
House of Assembly, which he currently represents, under the All
Progressives Congress (APC). NAN reports that on Oct. 24, 2018, actor Emeka Ike made public his
intentions to represent Okigwe South Federal Constituency at the Fedeal
House of Representatives under the Young Progressive Party (YPP). He shared the campaign poster on his Instagram page @emekaikeofficial
with the caption, “If the young has a voice, it’s now. Let’s urbanise
Okigwe South Federal Constituency. Let’s engage her youths now.” Also, popular celebrity social commentator and musician, Mr Jollof
announced his election bid on Sept. 24, 2018 with posters of his
campaign and the logo of his party, African Action Congress (AAC). Sharing the materials, showing his interest to represent Warri
Federal Constituency, on his Instagram page @mr.jollof_, he wrote, “I
don pay for nomination form o. As day break, make everywhere burst.
Let’s take it back.” Meanwhile, entertainment businessman, Shina Peller, on July 6, 2018,
announced his intentions to represent Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa
constituency at the Federal House of Representatives under the All
Progressives Congress (APC). He wrote on his Instagram page @shinapeller, “Hey people, I would
like to formally invite everyone to the declaration of my political
ambition.” NAN reports that each of these celebrities have been making use of
his social media platforms and large followership to push their
political ambitions, with some keeping online diaries of campaign
activities.