By Constance Imasuen Abuja – Prof. Umar Danbatta, Executive Vice Chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) says the commission will deploy massive broadband infrastructure to rural areas to boost internet access. Danbatta disclosed this at the Post-Nigeria National Broadband Plan
2013-2018 on Thursday in Abuja organised by the Association of
Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON). “What we envisage to happen next is that there will be massive
deployment of broadband infrastructure in rural areas that are unserved
and underserved. “The whole idea is that we are going to have a fiber access point in
virtually all the 774 local government areas in the country. “By the time this massive deployment of infrastructure takes place
and is concluded we hope to see the penetration hit the 70 per cent that
we are talking about here. “Even though this has not been conclusively agreed upon, I will like
to assure Nigerians of our readiness to deploy broadband infrastructure
in rural areas.” Danbatta said that there were close to 200 access gaps mostly in the rural areas of the country. He said that NCC knows where the access gaps are, adding that the
Universal Service Provision Funds (USPF) was targeted to close the
access gaps. “We intend to do that by deploying more base transmitters’ stations
in these areas and recently we have experimented and did a pilot on how
we can deploy a rural technology broadband solution in order to bridge
the gap faster. “So there is a provision in the 2018 budget as well as 2019 budget
for deployment of this rural technology solution to bridge the gap
faster. “And we have succeeded in bringing down the number of the access gaps from over 200 to about 190. “We have cut down on the number of Nigerians that will not access
especially internet services from close to 40 million to around 32
million.” The NCC boss said that the commission was working with the National
Broadcasting Commission to develop guidelines for the introduction of TV
White space deployment. He said that the deployment of the TV White Space would deepen broadband penetration. Mr Olusola Teniola, President of ATCON said that the meeting was
principally to see how the industry can work towards achieving a greater
broadband penetration. He said that the industry suggested 70 per cent broadband penetration
as being realistic in the next five years through the removal of
obstacles that worked against the initial plan.