By Anita Eboigbe Abuja – Several fashion surprises, notable celebrity moments and steamy musical performances added needed colour to the 91st Oscars ceremony on Sunday. The 91st Academy Awards, presented by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS), honoured the best films of 2018. Lady Gaga, who won the award for ‘Best Original Song’ arrived at the
Academy Awards wearing a dramatic black gown by Alexander McQueen. She accessorized with the Tiffany Diamond from Tiffany & Co.—a
128.54 carat diamond that has only been worn three times at major award
ceremonies throughout its 142 year history. Lady Gaga in 142-years-old Tiffany diamond The diamond had only ever been worn by Audrey Hepburn for her Breakfast at Tiffany’s publicity photos in 1961. Later on, Gaga and Bradley Cooper set Twitter alight with their very
convincing performance of Shallow – with some even speculating that they
nearly leaned in for a kiss. Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper performing ‘Shallow’ at 91st Oscars The ceremony also saw director, Spike Lee create a meme-able moment
when he jumped into the arms of his friend Samuel L Jackson on receiving
his first ever Oscar. Everyone was on their feet for the beloved filmmaker, who took the Best Adapted Screenplay gong for ‘BlacKkKlansman’. Spike Lee jumping on Samuel L. Jackson after snagging Best Director Award at the 91st Oscar (Source: Twitter) However, it was actor Billy Porter’s velvet tuxedo dress that really turned heads hours before the ceremony official started. The “Pose” star’s outfit was complete with a voluminous skirt and
train. The tuxedo/ballgown hybrid was designed by Christian Siriano. Actor Billy Porter in head-turning Tuxedo gown at the 91st Oscars Porter told Vogue that he’s always wanted to wear a ball gown, and that his first fitting for the dress left him feeling “free”. Oscar attendees roared with laughter as Melissa McCarthy, alongside
Brian Tyree Henry, entered the stage to present the award for Costume
Design with a royal-like outfit covered with stuffed bunnies. Melissa McCarthy walks on stage to present the award for best costume design at the Oscars on Sunday, Feb. 24, 2019, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. McCarthy’s look was no doubt inspired by the character Queen Anne in
“The Favourite,” which was one of the nominees in the category. In the
film, the queen had 17 fluffy rabbits, whom she referred to as her
children. Check out some favourite fashion moments: Jennifer Lopez stuns in Navy dress at Oscara Kerry Washington at the Oscars Actress, Gabrielle Union stuns at the Oscars After-party Naomi Campbell attends the 2019 Vanity Fair Oscar Party hosted by Radhika Jones at Wallis Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts on February 24, 2019 in Beverly Hills, California.