By
Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD) has
commended Nigerians for coming en masse to cast their vote despite the challenges
occasioned by shift in election date and logistics problems that characterize the
presidential and national Assembly election. The group gave the commendation in a press
briefing on Monday in Abuja while reporting its observations from its field
observers. The CDD
also urged all Nigerians to
be calm as they await the final declaration of results by INEC. The full report reads: The CDD Election Analysis Centre commends Nigerians for trooping
out in large numbers to cast their vote, in spite of the numerous challenges
many of them faced, during the rescheduled presidential and national assembly
elections on Saturday, February 23, 2019. For us, Nigerian voters are the
winners of the elections, because they took ownership of the voting process as
engaged citizens determined to make their votes count. Polling officials arrived as early as 7am on election day and
proceeded to make arrangements for voting to begin. Nevertheless, many polling
units did not begin voting as late as 9am, while in a few polling units voting
began between 12 noon and 1pm. The delay was due to logistics-related
challenges, missing materials, and inadequate security deployment within or
around the polling units. The pie charts below provide graphic representations of our
findings on the opening of polls across the country on Election Day. The conduct of the elections went on smoothly in most parts of the
country, with ad-hoc staff arriving on time. However, significant logistical
challenges marred the conduct of the elections in many parts of the country.
For example, ballot papers were insufficient in some polling units, while in
others there were lack of other sensitive and non-sensitive materials, such as
indelible ink, ballots, or result sheets. Smart card readers (SCRs) remain one of the most vital integrity
checks of elections in Nigeria. Although many of them failed, malfunctioned
SCRs were promptly corrected by roving staff of INEC, deployed for the purpose.
It is noteworthy that generally most of the SCRs worked well and therefore
played a role in ensuring the integrity of the elections. The Centre is
concerned however that in a number of polling units where SCRs malfunctioned,
voting proceeded without use of the machines. 1.4.1 Deployment of Security Adequate security personnel were generally deployed for duty in
many polling units but during voting process, there were instances of
disruption such as in Lagos and Imo, where no security agent was either present
or able to protect electoral officials and voters. 1.4.2 Electoral Violence On election day, Nigerians woke to the news that there had been
bomb blasts near Maiduguri, and also on the eve of election day there was
report of Boko Haram attacks in Gaidam, Yobe State. We observed that this
insecurity situation led to the relocation of voters from Gujba to Damaturu to
cast their votes. Similarly, voters in Madagali were also relocated to a safe
location in Adamawa to cast their votes. The Analysis centre further note with
dismay the violence that marred the polls in some areas in Lagos, Ebonyi, Imo,
Rivers, Osun, Oyo, Delta, Kogi and Akwa Ibom. We surmise over twenty people
have so far been confirmed killed on election day. While ballot box snatching,
voting disruption severely dampened morale in Lagos and some of the states
mentioned. We are in particular concerned about the killing and abduction of
election officials. More importantly, is the new trends of ballot snatching and
destruction that leads to cancellation or inconclusive elections? 1.5 Secrecy of the Ballot The secrecy of the ballot was violated, and voters cast their
ballot in full public view in some polling units, where polling booths were not
cordoned off or cubicles provided to ensure secrecy of the vote. In addition,
it appears that some voters were able to take their phones into the polling
booth, as evidenced by pictures of thumb-printed ballot papers in circulation.
This is in violation of the directive by the electoral umpire that no voters
should use their phones in voting cubicles. 1.6 Vote Buying and other Electoral Malpractices Vote buying was observed in some polling units in Bayelsa, Enugu,
Kano and Osun states. Its patterns varied according to geopolitical zones. In
some places, people are requested to put their names down and phone numbers so
that they can be paid later. However, most disturbing is the situation where
party agents go around with voters’ register, hustle voters and negotiate for
their votes. We also observed voters willingly selling their votes to the
highest bidder. The telephone was a valuable tool utilised in the vote buying
and selling transactions. Other electoral malpractices reported by our observers include
harassment of voters by thugs, arrest of observers by security agents,
snatching of ballot boxes, stuffing of ballot papers. Extension of Voting Period The late commencement of voting in some polling units led to an
open-ended extension of the voting period in some units. The extension was
necessary to ensure that all voters, who were unable to vote within the
stipulated voting period, for no fault of theirs, were given the opportunity to
vote. While in some units the extension was for a few hours, in others, such as
in Benue, Jigawa, Plateau and Zamfara states, voting continued into the morning
of Sunday 24th February. 2. Part Two: Issues 2.1 Slow Response and Poor Communications by INEC The Analysis Centre notes with concern the late response of INEC
to election-related incidents and challenges referred to it from polling units
on election day. Also, of concern is INEC’s poor communication with
stakeholders. For example, the postponement of voting in places such as Bonny
in Rivers state should have been communicated properly and in a timely manner
to the electorate and to explain the logistical challenges that have led to it. 2.2 Disruption of voting by VIPs In spite of the warning from INEC that VIPs, notably elective
public political officers, should not disrupt voting on election day, there
were high profile incidents of disruption of voting processes through the abuse
of the power of incumbency in states such as Akwa Ibom, Bauchi, Imo, Kogi,
Kwara, Lagos and Rivers, where huge supporters escorted politicians to the
polling units. 2.3 Anti-democratic attitude of the Political Class The elections provided further illustration of the anti-democratic
political culture of the country’s mainstream political class, through their
engagement in various forms of political brigandage and their do-or-die
attitude to elections. If the ordinary citizens are the winners of these
elections, the underlying zero-sum attitude and approach of the country’s
mainstream political class leaves a great deal to be desired. 2.4 Fake News Among all the suspected fake news in circulation especially via
social media on election day, the CDD-EAC fact checker system identified the
following disinformation in the form of anti APC/anti-PDP; anti INEC; and
anti-system narratives that were targeted at weakening confidence in the
integrity of the political system and the electoral process. In addition, the
manipulation of information was a trend in the news on the delivery of
electoral material. . 2.5 Ethno-Religious Bias in Electoral Mobilisation In the period leading up and during the elections, we noted the
excessively high levels of ethno-religious mobilisation and use of hate-speech.
This is a matter for concern. Conclusion In conclusion, we think the voting related processes and
management went generally well despite hitches here and there. We commend the
determination of Nigerians to exercise their franchise despite the odds
militating against their ability to do so. We hope that the identified problems
on election day will be addressed adequately and urgently. We urge all
Nigerians to be calm, not to provoke and to be provoked, as we await the final
declaration of results by INEC.