By Sumaila Ogbaje Abuja – The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), on Thursday, celebrated passengers at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja (NAIA) and Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, to mark the 2019 Valentine’s Day. The Managing Director of FAAN, Mr Saleh Dunoma, who was at NAIA,
presented rose flowers to some passengers as sign of appreciation to the
flying public. Dunoma was assisted by a popular Abuja-based Comedian, Mr Israel
Chuks, popularly known as Chuks D General, who thrilled the passengers
with funny reception at the airport. The FAAN boss said that the event was part of the authority’s
strategy to show appreciation to passengers, adding that the authority
was
committed to ensuring that air travellers were given utmost respect and comfort. According to him, the measure is to improve relationship with
customers and to celebrate the love season with passengers that are
passing
through the terminal. He said “this is one of the things in the series to improve our relationship with our customers. “We did something like this during Christmas but slightly different
because Christmas is a religious celebration, while Valentine
is a celebration of love which cuts across everybody. “We have tried to identify these events to join our passengers in celebrating them. “Most of the passengers we gave rose flowers today were surprised because they have not experienced this at our airports before. “All of them said that they didn’t expect that but we want to show them love and appreciation and to wish them safe trip.” Mrs Henrietta Yakubu, the General Manager, Corporate Affairs, FAAN, said that the occasion was an initiative of the authority
to celebrate and appreciate passengers for patronising the airport. Yakubu said that the event was being replicated at MMIA Lagos by welcoming passengers and bidding departing passengers farewell. She added that “we are sharing love, we are telling people that we
love them and we are wishing them safe trip, as we expect that
they will have fun.” A passenger on Ethiopian Airline, Dr Abdulraheem Rasheed, said that the event was remarkable, adding that he never expected
to be given a Valentine’s gift at an airport by FAAN. Rasheed thanked FAAN for recognising and cerebrating customers, saying that there were improvements at the airport recently. He said “this is remarkable because I don’t expect a Valentine’s gift
at the airport and hand shake from the managing director himself. “It is a good idea and I love it because I have not seen this anywhere in the world before. “I am impressed with the facilities here in the new terminal because it is close to what we see outside the country, which is
a good step in the right direction. “This is the kind of facility you find in places like Addis Ababa and UK.” Another passenger, Mrs Josephine Haruna, said she was impressed with the surprise reception by FAAN. Haruna also commended the initiative, saying it was the first time she witnessed such an event in Nigerian airports.