By Chukwuemeka Opara Abakaliki – The Ebonyi Police Command has warned political parties’ supporters to avoid inter-party clashes as culprits would be severely punished. “Political parties’ supporters should carry-out their campaigns with
decorum and avoid acts that will bring clashes or any form of violent
conduct. “We recorded none of such incidents during the president’s visit and I
implore that such trend continues during and after the elections,” the
Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) ASP Loveth Odah said in an
interview with the News Agency Of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Abakaliki. The police, however, sued for the understanding of  Abakaliki
residents over the traffic inconveniences experienced on Friday due to
Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential
candidate’s visit to the town. NAN reports that strategic routes in the town were blocked from
traffic, especially the roads leading to the Pa Ngele Oruta Stadium,
venue of the PDP presidential rally. The PPRO told NAN that the command was aware of the inconveniences
faced by motorists over the traffic restrictions and appealed for their
understanding. “Experiencing such situations during working and business hours on
two occasions within one week is definitely not palatable, but we urge
motorists to bear with us. “The restrictions are to ensure orderliness within the period of the
rally and the success of such restrictions can be attested to with
President Muhammadu Buhari’s own rally in the town, last Wednesday. “We will, however, re-open the roads for usage immediately after the
rally as we did during the president’s visit to the state,” she said. The PPRO noted that adequate security had been put in place by the
police for the rally in conjunction with ‘sister’ security agencies in
the state. “Adequate security personnel have been mobilised to the venue and
other strategic parts of the town to prevent negative incidences during
and after the period. “We owe the success recorded during the president’s visit to the
collaboration of all security agencies in the state and the cooperation
from the public,” she said.