By Yemi Adeleye Lagos – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Lagos State on Tuesday urged politicians to eschew conducts capable of inciting violence against women in the forthcoming elections. INEC
Resident Electoral Commissioner, Sam Olumekun, who made the call during
a stakeholders meeting in Lagos said the commission was passionate
about inclusiveness in electoral process for balanced development. The
News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event tagged: “Mitigating
Violence Against Women in the Electoral Process”, was aimed at creating
awareness on gender-based elections-related violence. Olumekun
was represented by Mrs Ijeoma Okey-Igbokwe, INEC Head of Department,
Voter Education, Publicity, Gender and Civil Society in Lagos. He
urged the stakeholders to integrate strategies that would foster
violence-free elections, mitigate incidences of violence against women
and enhance women’s participation in the elections. “Perpetrators
of violence against women do so to take undue advantage of them and
thus continue to perpetrate women’s non-inclusion in electoral process,”
the INEC boss said. He
said that, since women occupied half of the Nigeria’s population, it
was logical to demand a fair representation for them at all levels of
political leadership and decision making. Olumekun
added: “Violence against women in elections manifest as physical abuse,
psychological torture, denial of fair media exposure or outright sexual
abuse among others. “Gender-based electoral violence impinges on women’s rights to equal opportunity to pursue and realise their political goals. “Violence
against women undermines a vital requirement of electoral democracy
which is equality and equity in participation for all eligible segments
of the society. ”
As we prepare for the 2019 general elections, it is imperative that
measure are taken by all concerned to ensure that women’s right of free
and fair participation in the electoral process is protected secured and
preserved.” The Guest Speaker, Mrs Nkechi Ali-Balogun, said that women had been psychologically intimidated and subjugated in the country. Ali-Balogun,
who spoke on “Preventing and Mitigating Violence Against Women in the
Electoral Process,” said that electoral violence, traditions, finance,
domestic duties were major barriers to women participation in politics. “Research
has shown that a lot of women don’t go into politics. The reason is
obvious, we have been intimidated, and meanwhile women are tenacious and
resilient. “Violence
against women is a barrier. Tradition is our major enemy.
Election-related violence manifests as physical, verbal and
psychological violence to affect electoral process. “Removing
women from the space in elections is advantageous to men. We have
numerical strength to sway elections. Any nation that does not give room
for women is losing,”Ali-Balogun said. Ali-Balogun,
who called for women education and the development of their political
acumen, urged them to build gender solidarity to pursue and realise
their political goal. Another
speaker, Dr Franca Attoh, an Associate Professor of Sociology,
University of Lagos, said that physical violence prevented a lot of
women from participating in politics. Attoh
told NAN: “Most time when you find women in a political sphere there is
a tendency for people to term it as aberration. During elections, there
is a tendency for people to subdue the other sex. “Women
are subdued through physical and psychological violence, through
intimidation and blackmail, the essence of this is to put women to the
background. In
his remarks, Mr Waheed Ishola, Director, National Orientation Agency
(NOA), Lagos State, noted that the subject of violence against women was
apt, as these had been opposition to women leaderships. According
to him, lack of adequate security often leads to voter apathy, saying
adequate security will encourage many people, including women to
participate in electoral process. The
seminar, which also had civil society organisations and women groups in
attendance, dwelt on the role of security agencies in violence
mitigation in elections. (NAN)