By Diana Omueza Abuja, – The Nigerian Women Trust Fund (NWTF), Gender and Election Watch (GEW) on Sunday lauded the gender mix and balance of security agents, observers, ad hoc staff, journalists, party agents and other poll officers in the Feb. 23 general elections. Ms Mufuliat Fijabi, Chief Executive Officer of the group, said that
the good gender mix was a clear indicator of adherence to gender
sensitivity by the various organisations involved in the election
process. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the NWTF Gender and
Election Watch deployed 290 observers across the six geo-political zones
of the country and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) for the
exercise. “The observation was done through the gender lens, focusing on female
voters compared to male voters, gender mix of security agents, poll
workers, accredited observers, media personnel and party agents. “NWTF GEW observations were gathered from reports obtained from the
observers deployed and calls got on the five (5) GEW hotlines across the
country,’’ she said in a statement. Fijabi noted that separate queues based on gender were observed in
polling units, as well as effective deployment of security agencies in
certain areas. She expressed satisfaction with the massive voter turnout, the
priority voting by Persons Living with Disabilities (PLWDs), nursing and
pregnant women, as well as the elderly. Fijabi said that the election was generally peaceful, even though there were reported pockets of violence in some states. She commended security agencies for enforcement of the restriction of
movement order and lauded Nigerians’ compliance with the restriction
order. “The presence of the media, domestic and international observers
during the elections, shows commitment of the bodies in the sustenance
of Nigerian growth and democratic stability. “The high number of early and massive turnout of young voters was very impressive. “The extension of voting time, to make up for the late commencement
in some of the polling units, was a good headway by the Independent
National Electoral Commission (INEC), to ensure that no one was
disenfranchised,’’ she said. Fijabi, however, raised certain concern about the late arrival of INEC officials to some of the polling units. “The delayed opening of polls due to late arrival of polling
officials and security agents in some of the polling units is a call for
concern in the forthcoming elections. “Also, provision of certain materials such as the Information
Education and Communication (IEC) materials for the deaf and those who
were hearing-impaired were missing in various units. “Although there was presence of Braille ballot guide for the
visually-impaired in some of the polling units. However, there were no
magnifying glasses sighted in polling units visited. “There were cases of malfunctioning smart card readers in some polling units; though some were resolved with backup,”  she said. Fijabi recommended that INEC should conduct a comprehensive training
of its ad hoc staff, particularly those handling the smart card readers. She appealed that in subsequent elections, INEC should ensure early arrival of all workers and materials at the polling units. “We expect better crowd control by the security agents in polling
units with large voting population. However, security agents should
sustain their level of professionalism and remain vigilant. “INEC, in future, should educate voters through appropriate channels on how to identify polling units. “The gender mix of security agents, observers, accredited
journalists, party agents and poll workers should be sustained,’’ Fijabi
said. Fijabi urged Nigerians to remain resolute in exercising their civic
duties and rights in the March 9 elections by maintaining peace and
orderliness.