By Habibu Harisu Sokoto – The Buhari Support Organisation (BSO), Sokoto State chapter, has urged the  Governor of the state, Aminu Tambuwal, to allow eligible students in the state to  participate in the rescheduled 2019 general  elections. The organisation made the call in a statement signed by its Director,
Media and Publicity, Malam Aminu Faruk, and made available to newsmen
in Sokoto on Wednesday. It stated that the postponed elections provided an opportunity for the eligible students to exercise the civic rights of voting. The chapter criticised the state government’s decision not to allow
boarding students to return home prior to the previous dates of the
rescheduled elections. Faruk said the action would disenfranchise eligible voters among students of boarding schools in Sokoto state. It said students constituted a good number of registered voters in
the state, stressing that there was no need to disenfranchise them. “This is evident with the non-compliance to the Federal
Government’s directive to close schools to enable students travel home
to exercise their civic duties as citizens. “ This may not be unconnected with Gov. Tambuwal’s fear that majority
of the students will vote for the opposition, APC, as an expression of
grudge on the poor state of education in the state. “The students are the primary victims of this action because it is a
fact that the so-called state of emergency in the education sector has
little impacts on the citizens” Faruk added. BSO further said the situation in public schools even within the
state capital revealed poor state of infrastructure for proper learning
and complete lack of instructional materials for effective teaching. The organisation pointed out that lack of incentives to teachers had
also led to poor attitude toward teaching and lack of dedication to
duties on the side of other workers. According to BSO, the situation in the schools is not reflecting the
huge amount budgeted annually on education in addition to the monthly
deductions from the emoluments of workers in the state.