By Adekunle Williams and Solomon Asowata Lagos – The Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) has taken delivery of consignment of critical spare parts for the continuous service and operation of the Total Radar Coverage of Nigeria (TRACON). The Managing Director of NAMA, Capt. Fola Akinkuotu, confirmed the development to newsmen on Sunday in Lagos. Akinkuotu said that the consignment, which was cleared at the Apapa
Port in Lagos from Thales Group, in France include MES1 1400A power
supply modules, control units and other critical units. He explained that they would be used by NAMA engineers to effect
repairs on any of the nine TRACON installations across the country for
optimal functioning of the system. Akinkuotu disclosed that apart from the spares already received,
another consignment of spares have landed Apapa port and was being
presently cleared. He said other consignments were already being shipped to Nigeria from
France, adding that payment had already been made for all consignments. The NAMA boss also revealed that TRACON would undergo a total
reconditioning process in order to meet the International Civil Aviation
Organisation (ICAO) standard. He described this process as “a sort of Turn-around-maintenance which
is to be carried out by the equipment manufacturer, Thales Group” Akinkuotu noted that the acquisition of spares for TRACON was in line
with the agency’s decision to be proactive in maintaining the nation’s
radar facility. “Availability of spares will ensure that parts of the radar equipment
will be readily available whenever and wherever they are needed. “There are some that will immediately be used for replacement while
others will be kept in the warehouse, pending when they will be needed,”
he added. Akinkuotu also stated that NAMA engineers had the capacity to
undertake the maintenance of the TRACON facility and had always done so
in the past. (NAN)
WAC/ASO/MS/IS
=============
Edited by Mustapha Sumaila/Ismail Abdulaziz Posted in General news
|