By Ikuru Lizzy Port Harcourt – Sen. Magnus Abe,(Rivers South-East Senatorial zone), has expressed condolences to the families of Mowan Etete and others who lost their lives in the Feb.23 electoral violence in Rivers. Etete was former Chairman, Andoni Local Government Area of the state. He urged politicians to avoid spilling blood in subsequent elections. Abe, in a statement signed by his
spokesman, Mr Parry Benson on Saturday in PortHarcourt warned against
playing politics of bitterness and spilling of blood. The Senator, who said that politics
must grow beyond primitive level, called for the arrest and prosecution
of those behind the heinous crime. “My friend and longtime associate,
Etete, and other innocent Rivers people are dead today, simply because
they came out to answer the call of their country to perform their civic
obligation. “I had warned repeatedly that we should not strike the drums of war. “Rivers people should not forgive
any politician or accomplice associated with these loss of lives, no
matter how highly placed that they may be. “Our politics must begin to move beyond the primitive stage. “No politician should continue to claim the power to deliver any unit not to talk of a ward, a local government or a state. “We must imbibe the true spirit of democracy. “This means that the vote of the
Governor, Minister, Senator, Commissioner and that of the council
Chairman will have the same value as that of the bricklayer, driver,
nurse, and even the unemployed youth. “No one should have the power to promise or guarantee the vote of any Nigerian to a third party,” he said. “If you are good to your people, you
can appeal to them, but you must respect their wishes where they differ
from your own,” he said. Abe, stressed that the murder of Etete, and others should not be undermined but treated as the heinous crime. The lawmaker urged security
operatives not to limit attention to just the gunmen but look out for
those behind the scenes, who planned and orchestrated the violence. He maintained that Rivers must grow
beyond the politics of blood, saying: “We can no longer allow our dear
state to be a byword for electoral violence and bloodshed in the
country.”