By Aisha Gambo Kaduna – Some residents of Kaduna State on Wednesday commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for conducting what they described as a free and fair election in the Feb. 23 polls. The residents, who spoke to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in
separate interviews, said the Saturday election was one of the best INEC
had ever conducted. Mr Usman Musa, a resident, said that the elections were peacefully
conducted with few incidences of violence in some parts of the country,
which he said were inevitable. He advised the second runner up of the presidential election, Atiku
Abubakar of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), to be patient and
accept the result as destiny. Another resident, Usman Sani, noted that the people’s conduct during
the election was commendable, saying people came out to vote for
candidates of their choices and not to fight. “We prayed to God to choose the leader, who is best for us and He
chose Buhari, we hope he will continue to serve Nigeria better,” he
said. Ramatu Shuaibu, also a resident,  thanked God for a peaceful
election, adding that it was the best she had witnessed in the country
so far. Muhammad Auwal, however,  urged winners of the Saturday polls to be accountable to the people who voted for them. He also pleaded with the winners not to betray the trust of the people. Also, Sani Haruna, urged the winners to exercise the fear of God and remember the masses, who came out to vote for them. He urged them to make education and provision of employment their priority. However, David Eziche, noted that there were flaws in the polls as violence disrupted elections in some parts of the country. He also alleged that INEC disenfranchised some sections of the country. ” They were cases of violence in some parts of the country, while elections were not conducted in some others. “INEC should have re -conducted elections in those places before announcing results,” he said. Eziche, however, urged the winners to lay a good principle and serve Nigerians well. NAN reports that residents of Kaduna metropolis, Rigasa, and Tudun
Wada areas were in celebration mood as women and youths were on the
streets singing and dancing because of President Buhari’s victory. Idowu Gabriel Ado-Ekiti - The Ekiti State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has… By Temitope Ponle Abuja - The Head of African Union Election Observation Mission, Mr Hailemariam… By Victor Okoye Abuja - The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Tuesday declared Atiku…