By Lydia Ngwakwe Lagos – An NGO, Women Arise for Change Initiative, on Saturday urged the Federal Government to criminalise rape and all forms of sexual violence against women and girls in the country. Dr Joe Okei-Odumakin, president of the group, told the News Agency of
Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos that this conduct was prevalent in the country
because many perpetrators were not punished. The rights activist was reacting to a statement by Sierra Leonean
President, Julius Maada Bio, on Thursday declaring rape and sexual
violence a “national emergency.’’ Bio said sexual attacks on minors would be punishable with life imprisonment. Okei-Odumakin said: “We must, as a nation learn from this; our
leaders must develop the political will as demonstrated by the Sierra
Leone President and criminalise rape and all forms of sexual violence. “This unfortunate conduct remains prevalent in our society because
perpetrators always find their way out of the prosecution routes,
thereby making victims more vulnerable. “The 2003 Child Rights Act clearly criminalises rape of minors with
stringent punishment. It clearly prescribes jail terms ranging from 14
years, to life,’’ she said. According to her, one significant observation of her organisation is
that there has been a very low level of awareness about the sexual and
domestic violence desk created by the Nigeria Police. She called on the Police to carry out civic education for people to
know and take advantage of the department created by it to curb the
menace. Okei-Odumakin said that low awareness was the reason citizens had not
effectively utilised the sexual and domestic unit created to tackle the
menace. “It is, therefore, my view that the police, being a primary
institution for the prosecution of such crimes, must do more of public
enlightenment and civic education, towards ensuring that citizens take
advantage of the opportunities offered by the office in the quest toward
curbing sexual and domestic violence. “Even though the police is making efforts at meeting the purpose for
the creation of this office, that department has not been making enough
progress in justifying its mandate, to the satisfaction of the Nigerian
people,’’ Okei-Odumakin said.