By Chinenye Offor  Abuja – Project Pink Blue, a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), has urged the Federal government to create an institutional action on care of cancer. The Executive Director, Project Pink Blue, Mr Runcie Chidebe, made
the call on Saturday in Abuja during a walk in commomeration of World
Cancer Day. He noted that the event was a day set aside to create awareness on cancer. According to him, the government, stakeholders and individuals have a
role to play in reducing the burden of cancer in the society. Chidebe decried the 2018 huge figure of 1,115 people diagnosed with
cancer and about 72,000 thousand deaths in the society by the World
Health Organization. He said that such figure called for urgent intervention and advocated
for more screening centres and equipment, adding that it will help
reduce deaths. “In Nigeria today, cancer treatment is nothing to write home about
because some of the equipment and facilities are not working. “If you have cancer today in our society, you are on your own and
this calls for action from the government in order to curb the disease. “We are loosing our mentors, mothers, fathers and children to cancer that the developed countries are curtailing,” he said. He therefore urged everyone to get tested for cervical, breast and
prostate cancer, adding that early detection alone cannot save life but
combination of early detection with treatment. Chidebe further said that his foundation was using the day to target
and give free cervical, breast and prostate cancer screenings to 1000
patients. Ms Owen Omegefo, the Managing Director of Transcop Hilton Abuja and
Calabar, said they were supporting project in raising awareness on
cancer. Omegefo who defeated cancer, urged everyone to get tested, saying that early detection is key to survival. She further said that it was important to get screened for cancer
irrespective of age, adding that she was diagnosed of cervical cancer at
age 29 and attributed her survival to early detection and treatment. she therefore enjoined everyone to make life style changes such as
eating healthy foods and exercising, among others, as it was another way
of combating cancer.