By Naomi Sharang Abuja, – Centre for Transparency Advocacy (CTA), a Civil Society Organisation, has hailed Nigerians for their large turnout during the Presidential and National Assembly elections on Saturday. The Acting Executive Director of the group, Ms Faith Nwadishi, gave
the commendation while briefing newsmen on its preliminary report of the
elections in Abuja on Sunday. She said that: “We once again commend the majority of Nigerians who
peacefully, painstakingly with determination and enthusiasm came out in
high numbers to perform their civic duties. “In spite of the challenges encountered and the earlier postponement
of the elections, voters turned out in large numbers with determination
and enthusiasm. “It was heartening to see that irrespective of their political views, voters took this civic duty seriously. “Nigerians once again showed their determination to ensure the sustenance of democracy. “We also commend the Independent National Electoral Commission
(INEC) for the simultaneous accreditation and voting which in no small
measure contributed to the relative peaceful conduct of the exercise.’’ Nwadishi further said that while INEC generally displayed dedication,
it was observed that some of the officials were still grappling with
basic understanding of their roles as well as the capacity to operate
the card readers. “We also note with concern, few cases of INEC officials conniving with politicians to sabotage the electoral process. “The penchant for the use of political thugs, vote-buying, the
predilection for compromising the security agencies, have all combined
to pose serious threats to the political process by the political class
and political parties,’’ she said. The President, Public Interest Lawyers League, Mr Abdul Mahmud, who
noted that people were the core of democracy, said that Nigerians had
shown that “democracy without the people is hollow’’. Also, a Public Affairs Analyst, Mr Kennedy Emetulu, commended INEC on
the outcome of the exercise, saying that the electoral umpire exhibited
determination to deliver free, fair and credible elections.