By Jessica Dogo Nasarawa – Rev. Wamtunghun Mureng of the Church of Christ In Nations (COCIN) has called on Independent National Electoral Commission  (INEC) and politicians to refrain from all forms of electoral malpractice. He said any position attained through twisting, bribing and without
approval of God is in vain and destined to end in regrets “in this world
and the hereafter”. Mureng gave the advice on Sunday at the inauguration of the Local Church Council (LCC), Kabayi, Nasarawa State. The cleric also called on INEC to play its part with the fear of God,
making sure that the process was conducted in a free and fair manner. Urging Christians to vote for candidates of their choice, he said
that the Church had no right to tell members whom to vote for in the
elections. Mureng also called on INEC to ensure speedy collection of the
Permanent Voter Cards (PVC) in subsequent elections, adding that the PVC
should be out immediately after registration “We as a church, do not tell our members who to vote, because they have the right to vote whoever pleases them. “We have sensitisef our members to be able to respect their will and conscience concerning the elections. “I appeal that whenever people register for election, the PVC should not take time for collection,” he said. Rev. David Wetben, Leading Pastor, LCC Kabayi, described the gesture as an elevation and promotional. Wetben explained that the Church, which was restricted on some of its
doctrines, now had the right to take decisions and could go outside to
perform missions and win souls for Christ. “We have been anxious to see the LCC today. The structure they have here is expanding and the members are growing steadily. “What we are looking forward to seeing in LCC Kabayi is that they
will open another branch, they will also make more members, while also
to serve the country. “As we serve God, we are serving our motherland, as we serve God we
are doing our part in bringing peace and unity to this country. “We want to see everyone pleasing and honouring the Lord right within
himself and also the family, church and the entire congregation,’’ he
said. Rev. Bitrus Gonam called on the LCC to trust in God and put the
things of God above everything else, so that God’s work would be given
more preference. Gonam said that the Church should carry out duties to the best of its ability, adding that God was interested in fruitfulness. Mr Theophilus Markus, Chairman of the Local Planning Committee,
however said that there were challenges during preparations for the
programme, but the committee overcame them. Markus explained that the planning was all about sacrificing time and
resources, adding that it was God’s work and everything had a time
frame to be concluded. “Going up and down to invite people for the programme was a big challenge for the committee. “This is the work of God, so we were prepared for it,  and submmited ourselves,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Church started from
being a prayer cell then later grew to a prayer house and now a Church
with a total of 350 congregants.