By Ojonugwa Felix Ugboja After what INEC described as ‘logistics challenges,’ the 2019 Presidential and National Assembly elections in Nigeria were shifted at the dying minute by one week. But the situation since yesterday – before and after voting commenced – shows that the logistics challenges remain, leaving room for political villains to take advantage of the security and organisational lapses to unleash heart breaking violence across the country. In the early hours of Saturday, February 23, Boko Haram had started a series of attacks on northeast city, Maiduguri, the Borno State capital. A soldier was killed and as many as 20 people were injured. The militant group seeking to carve out an Islamic state for itself insists that no elections be held. Fortunately, that attempt to dissuade voters and cause more havoc like they did when they attacked the governor’s convoy weeks ago was arrested by the Nigerian Military. But in several places yesterday, INEC was unable to open the polling stations on time and thugs were on hand to disrupt voting in other places with little or no resistance from security personnel. INEC has announced that voting will continue in some of those affected places today. Two local government areas in Rivers state, Bonny and Okrika were affected, with INEC confirming that no elections took place at Bonny in particular. In Okrika, violent thugs wouldn’t let officials conduct the election. Many believed that when President Muhammadu Buhari, who is also seeking a return, spoke last week that electoral offenders would be dealt with ruthlessly by security agents, it will set a bad mode for voters who have learnt from experience not to trust the judgement of security agencies in the country. The President’s call may be an honest one to deter ballot box snatchers – who are usually pervasive in Nigerian elections – but the country has a long record of extra-judicial killings by its security officers. In spite of this notice, there was a lot of voters turn out in most places. Reporters from Sundiata Post who covered the election in Abuja confirm that though the process was quite slow and tedious in many places before picking up, voters were around and very patient with INEC to eventually get things right. Same could not be said for states like Ebonyi, Rivers, Lagos, Osun, Oyo, Kogi and others. As at the time of writing, Nigerian writer and activist, Prof. Chidi Odinkalu, who is well involved in election monitoring, stated that at least 27 killings have been verified and likely to increase as collation begins. A member of the Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD) Analysis Centre (EAC), Dr. Plangsat Dayit said, ‘’two persons were killed with three others injured in Amagu Warn 1 in Ikwo local government area of Ebonyi state . The deaths occurred following a clash between supporters of two political parties. ‘’In Rivers state, five people have so far been killed in Andoni local government area and another one in Akuku Toru local government area.’’ Among those killed in Rivers State include a former local government leader and his brother. In several polling units in Lagos, videos and media reports showed bloody fights between gangs as unknown men distributed cash to waiting groups. Places in Yaba, Festac and Ago witnessed a lot of voters’ intimidation and burning of ballot materials. In Anyigba, Kogi State , 19-year-old Daniel Usman was accidentally shot by armed thugs bent on influencing what happened in a polling station. Other violent crimes were reported in the state leaving many injured. In the early hours of today (Sunday) hoodlums broke into INEC office in Oriade Local Government Area of Osun State. The attackers were said to have first opened fire to scare away officials of the commission and party agents before seizing ballot boxes, thumb-printed ballot papers and setting them on fire. Euphemistically speaking, it is safe to say that the elections were far from smooth – ballot box snatching; PVC and ballot papers burning; inadequacy of sensitive voting materials; late accreditation; voters’ disenfranchisement and worse, killings. Whatever the outcome of the election, it will be remembered for its blemishes. A combination of factors including INEC’s disorganisation, weak security operations, political desperation and systemic failures have made what otherwise should have been a peaceful process a harvest of deaths.   