By Desmond Ejibas Port Harcourt – No fewer than 13 persons have been detained by the Nigerian Army over illegal possession of ballot papers and bribe taking during Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections. Among those arrested are Rivers Commissioner for Urban Development,
Dr Reason Williams and Mr Opokri Wanaka, a serving member in the Rivers
State House of Assembly. Others are a army major and three police officers accused of
collecting bribes to compromise election materials kept inside the
premises of the Central Bank of Nigeria. Col. Aminu Iliyasu, Spokesman of 6 Division, Nigerian Army, Port
Harcourt, spoke when he paraded the 13 suspects in Port Harcourt on
Tuesday. Iliyasu said that Williams and Wanaka were arrested for attempting to
induce troops stationed in Akinima Area of Rivers to rig the election
in favour of an unnamed political party in the state. ”On Feb. 23, at about 7 a.m, a member of Rivers State House of
Assembly, Opokri Wanaka in company of Dr Reason Williams, Rivers Urban
Development Commissioner visited our troop’s camp in Akinima. ”Thereafter, Opokri offered the commander of the camp some amount of
money that he removed from his pocket but the officer rejected the offer
and sent the duo away,” he said. He claimed that the two government officials later resurfaced at an
army checkpoint in Mbiama to plead for the release of eight unnamed
suspects caught in possession of sensitive election materials. The army spokesman said the eight suspects were driving a white Hilux
vehicle with a Rivers State Government plate number L02-03 RV RIVERS
during their arrest. According to him, a carton and two bundles of election ballot papers
were discovered in the vehicle which immediately raised eyebrows – as
the occupants were neither INEC staff nor ad hoc staff. ”Incidentally, during the course of our on-the-spot interrogations,
the same Wanaka and Williams appeared on the spot and told troops that
the vehicle was part of INEC convoy that was left behind. ”Wanaka and Williams demanded that the vehicle be allowed to go but
our men refused. Later, Williams put a call to a governor (names
withheld). ”Thereafter, the governor requested to speak with our officer who
declined but requested the governor to call the General Officer
Commanding the Division. ”After much resistance, the officer gave Williams his phone number to
pass on to the governor. Soon after, the governor called the officer
via WhatsApp message,” the army spokesman said. Iliyasu, however, played a 10 minute recording to the hearing of
journalists, which purportedly was made by the governor to the army
officer. (NAN) A member of the National Youth Service Corps, Ashimom Msuguhter, who also served as an… By SundiataPOST, Abuja  ECOWAS high Commissioner on Political Affairs and former Minister of State for… By SundiataPOST, Abuja Governor Chibuike Amaechi of Rivers State on Saturday said the state House…