By Ibironke Ariyo Abuja – Mr Ja’afaru Ahmed, Controller-General of the Nigeria Prisons Service, has reiterated the commitment of the service to the welfare of staff through skills acquisition to enhance their financial status, even after retirement. Ahmed stated this at the 13th Annual Prisons Welfare Insurance Scheme (PWIS) workshop on Wednesday in Abuja. He said it was evident that poor planning and management of retirement had proven to be a cause of financial distress and challenges for many workers in Nigeria and the NPS. “This year’s workshop skill acquisition theme, ‘Building your tomorrow today’ is designed to address the financial instability that sometimes accompanies retirement from service and also add value to life in retirement,” Ahmed said. He noted that the theme reflected the yearnings of members and would enhance staff entrepreneurship through skill acquisition. “We will not relent in our thrust to make sure staff welfare remains our utmost priority in our drive towards building a service of international standard and reputation. “Our efforts in promoting and improving staff healthcare, financial well-being and other relevant physical and psychological needs is a pointer towards achieving these objectives,” he said. The Prison boss said the scheme, in its continuous determination to assist staff had within the last 12 months of 2018 (January- December), paid claims of 179 dead beneficiaries to the tune of N153.08 million. “146 beneficiaries’ medical claims to the tune of N26.18 million for officers who in the streak of duty sustained injury and totally paid 1,007 beneficiaries’ retirement claims to the tune of N384.34 million amounting to a total of 1,332 beneficiaries. “Thus, an aggregate sum of N563.85 million has been released for the payment to beneficiaries,” he stated. Ahmed commended President Muhammadu Buhari and the Minister of interior, LT. Gen. Abdulrahman Dambazau, for their leadership and commitment toward the welfare of Prisons Staff. On his part, Secretary, PWIS, Mr Maman Salisu said the success of the scheme could be traced to several factors including the hard work of both its membership and leadership. Salisu commended the efforts of the CGP on his commitment toward the welfare of the staff, adding that the payment of death, medical and retirement claims owed its success to adequate supervision and monitoring processes. “I am not sure we can easily conclude a discourse on the achievements of PWIS without highlighting the invaluable inputs of our amiable CGP. “Your approval for the purchase and distributions of laptops and Multi-purpose printers for all desk officers across the state and PWIS secretariat has been of immense value to the administration of the scheme. “You have equally approved the restructuring and reconstitution of the Board of Trustees (BOT) members for transparency, accountability and proper decision making of PWIS,” he said. Salisu said the items had greatly enhanced the proficiency of desk officers across the federation and also improved documentation, communication and data management.