By Olayinka Olawale Lagos – Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP), Yaba College of Technology Chapter  has cautioned its members to shun unprofessional conducts as they return to the classrooms. Mr Nureni Yekini, Chairman of the chapter gave the advice in an
interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos on Thursday. Yekini was reacting to the suspension of the two months strike embarked upon by the union. He said that all members had returned to their duty posts as directed
by the National Executive Council (NEC) of the union on Feb. 13. He said that the lecturers were happy to be back at their duty posts after a two-month-old strike. He said “We have suspended the strike as directed by the union to return to the classroom. “We have come back to work as we were directed by the national body. “I urge all our members to shun unprofessional ethics that can tarnish the image of the union and the college. “Yabatech is number one institution in the country and we cannot afford to be found wanting. “Do your job diligently and passionately, irrespective of the situation and God will reward you, “ he said. Speaking about the progress recorded during the strike, Yekini said
the union had received parts of its demands from the Federal Government. He said the union was able to secure funds for the payment of salary
shortfalls and promotion arrears as well as implementation of the 2014
NEEDS assessment reports. He said that some members of the union that were sacked by the
Federal Polytechnic, Iree, had been reinstated by the institution’s
management. He said that the union was still working on the CONTISS 15 Migration and Polytechnic Act. Mr Joe Ejiofor, Head, Public Relations unit of the college, said
academic board of the college would hold an emergency meeting to review
the school time-table following the suspension of ASUP strike. Ejiofor said that a new academic calendar might be adopted after the meeting on Thursday. NAN reports that the union embarked on an indefinite strike on Dec.
12, 2018 over the failure of the Federal Government to implement
agreements reached with the union since 2009. Some demands of the union include implementation of 2014 NEEDS
assessment reports, payment of salary shortfall and promotion arrears
among others.