President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC), must pay for the massive carnage that have trailed Saturday’s presidential election across the country, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has sworn. The party, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbodiyan, with which it alerted Nigerians and the international community, accused the APC of killing innocent Nigerians, snatching and burning ballot boxes in today’s Presidential election. The party while expressing happiness that the move had not broken the will of the people in their determination to stand till the end, “in voting out the incompetent, corrupt and oppressive APC administration,” regretted the ruling party’s unleashing of violence is the major part of the script by the APC to intimidate Nigerians and disrupt the election, in their bid to enforce the now failed President Buhari’s self-succession plot. The statement, read further: “President Buhari and the APC leadership must know that they are directly responsible for the killings in Rivers state, the violent snatching of ballot box and burning of electoral materials in Lagos and various other states where compromised security agents were used to directly interfere in the electoral process. “In Lagos state, the world watched in amazement as security agents aided APC thugs to invade polling centers, disrupt electoral process, manhandle voters, destroy and burnt electoral materials, including ballot papers and boxes. “In Rivers state, voters were shot and killed by agents of the APC in their desperation to manipulate the elections. “Our party is compiling a list of all infractions and the killings as well as securing the identities of all individuals who played roles in these the atrocities. “The PDP deeply salutes the resilience, courage and sacrifices by Nigerians, across the board, in resisting the Buhari’s anti-democratic forces and insisting that their votes must count, against all odds. “Nigerians, across the country are exceptionally upbeat in their resolution to vote out this incompetent, divisive, vengeful, violent prone and corrupt APC administration, despite the machinations of the Buhari Presidency “This election has shown President Buhari and in particular, certain individuals in Lagos state, who thought that they were emperors, that the will of the people is bigger than them. The APC turned the election into a war but Nigerians have shown that nobody can suppress their resilient spirit. “The PDP therefore call on INEC to ensure that all votes count as Nigerians are following all the figures from the polling units. Having come thus far and after making huge sacrifices, Nigerians will never accept any result that does not reflect the reality of their already expressed wishes and aspiration at the polls.” Source Whirlwindnews.com