Funmilayo Okunade Ado-Ekiti – A 62-year-old man, Bayode Samuel, on Thursday asked an Ado-Ekiti Customary Court to dissolve his 30-year-old marriage to his wife, Bosede,  over  her waywardness among others. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Samuel is seeking the
dissolution of the marriage on the ground of waywardness, lack of
contentment, lack of respect, unfaithful, adamant to correction and
quarrel by his wife. Samuel, a resident of No. 23, AUD Primary School Road in  Odo-Ado,
Ado-Ekiti, told the court that his wife was always fomenting  troubles
with him. He said that she was fond of disobeying him and was not giving him rest of mind. He told the court that the union was blessed with three children: one female, aged 29 and a set of male twins; aged 25. He said that his marital problems started some years ago when his wife started making their home awful to stay. “I am always afraid to talk to Bosede because I feel like I no longer have authority over her as a husband. “There was a time, when someone informed me that my wife was with
another man in a hotel, the person told me that he saw her (Bosede)
coming out of the hotel. “My wife has a concubine in Aramoko Ekiti because one day, I traced
her to the man’s house and I confronted her so that she will not deny
it,’’ Samuel said. The petitioner claimed that he thought that his wife would change “but all is to no avail. “There was a time my wife told me that she was travelling to Lagos
but I denied her of going, while we were at it, my wife’s phone rang. “When I picked the call, it was a male voice that I heard and the man
said:  “I have been waiting for you and have booked a room in a hotel
in Lagos. “I told the man that I am her husband although she later called the man back to warn him not to call her again,’’ Samuel said. The petitioner, a retiree from the public service, said that when he
was in service, he bought two cars and gave one to his wife, adding that
she was never contented. He said that he was responsible for his own cooking, washing of his clothes and cleaning the house. The petitioner, therefore, appealed to the court to separate him from his wife, saying: “Ì want to live in peace.’’ The president of the court, Mrs Olayinka Akomolede, said since the
respondent had repeatedly shunned the court’s proceedings, the court had
deemed it fit to have admitted the allegations levelled against her as
being the truth. She therefore adjourned the case until March 28 for judgment.