ENUGU (Sundiata Post) – A non-governmental organisation, Centre for
Reform Education Initiative (CREI) has called on the electorate in
Ebonyi State to massively vote for the second term bid of Governor Dave
Umahi in the March 9, 2019 gubernatorial elections, saying “there is no
need changing a performing team”. Executive director of CREI,
Hon. Chinwe Ugwu, who made the call in a statement sent to Sundiata
Post, said it was time for the people of the state to show appreciation
to the governor for the excellent job he has done since he was sworn in
on May 29, 2015. She explained that there was every need for the
people of Ebpnyi to re-elect Governor Umahi to enable him continue the
laudable work he has done in the past almost four years adding that the
state ‘has never has it so good” “We, at CREI are of the view
that the only way the good people of Ebonyi state can show appreciation
and acknowledge the transformation of the state in the past few years is
to vote for continuity by Governor Dave Umahi to allow him consolidate
on his good work and further transform the state as a major business hub
in the South-east. “It is our candid belief that with the good
plans the governor has put in place, if he is given another four years,
the massive development and economic transformation in Ebonyi State
would be like what is obtainable in the developed world”, she stated.. The
Executive Director noted that “if you go round the state capital you
will be amazed at the level of development everywhere, including massive
roads networks, three units of modern fly-over, and expansive
roundabouts with water fountains, as well as construction of other
infrastructure and developmental projects taking place in other parts of
the state”. According to her, “It is in Ebonyi State that you
can see massive concrete roads construction works linking up different
parts of the state and neighbouring states. And it is amazing that all
these huge developments and transformations are happening in just three
years administration of Gov. Dave Umahi. He is just a rare gift to the
state; hence my passionate call is for the people of the state to vote
massively to re-turn him to office for the second term”. She
explained that the decision of the group to campaign for the Governor
was due to the driving force behind the high level of development taking
place in Ebonyi State adding that “the great passion, vision and
devotion by the governor was most commendable. “We have observed
that Governor Dave Umahi has the passion and the commitment towards
making Ebonyi the hub of business and development in the South-east
region. Everyone can attest to the fact since he came into office, the
state has witnessed tremendous development in areas of infrastructure,
economic empowerment and great performances in virtually other sectors. “Today,
he is one of the few governors in the South East that has an enduring
programme for the youths; his empowerment scheme, which is aimed at
taking off the streets all indigenes of Ebonyi is a landmark
achievement. He has been able to give the youth of Ebonyi a renewed
confidence, which is now their driving force to developing themselves
and attaining self sufficiency. ”