By Peter Amine Jos – Gov. Simon Lalong of Plateau on Thursday begged for forgiveness from all those who lost loved ones in the persistent crises that rocked the state for many years. Lalong who made the appeal while inaugurating the “Garden of
Forgiveness” in Jos also declared Feb. 7, as day of forgiveness in the
state. “I stand on behalf of the good people of Plateau to ask for
forgiveness from all the children who have lost their parents because of
our intolerance of each other. “We ask for the forgiveness of parents who have lost their children
in this ugly introduction that smeared our history as people of peace. “We ask for the forgiveness of every man that lost his wife when we migrated ingloriously from our humanity to inhumanity. “We ask for the forgiveness of every woman that lost her husband in
the course of our madness, which is better forgotten than remembered. “I declare today Feb. 7, as a day of forgiveness to be observed as an
annual public holiday in the state, a day for sober reflection, prayers
and turning back to Almighty God as enshrined in our scriptures,” the
governor said. He added:” The day is set apart to reflect on our journey as a people
and having in mind the various crises that have bedeviled the state
from 2001.” He said that many lives have been lost, properties destroyed and relationships severed and development negatively affected. Lalong said that the people of the state were pained by the losses of the past. The governor appealed to the people to take the message of
forgiveness to every nook and cranny of the state, from homes to
hamlets, villages and Local Government Areas (LGAs) to exchange
vengeance with forgiveness. He dedicated the garden of peace and forgiveness to those who
experienced pain and in memory of those who lost their lives owing to
various violent conflicts that affected the state. “I hope that this garden of peace and forgiveness will serve as a
safe place where all forms of anger and misunderstanding will be
resolved and the exchange of flower of forgiveness blossoms,” he said. Mr Joseph Lengmang, the Director-General, Plateau Peace Building
Agency, said that the garden would be nurture to its potential by the
agency. Dr Fabong Jemchang, the President, Plateau Youth Council noted the critical role of forgiveness in resolving crises globally. The forgiveness garden was initiated by the Interfaith Mediation
Centre Kaduna in collaboration with the state Youth Council and Peace
Building Agency. (NAN)