Calls for the removal of INEC Chairman, Prof Mahmood Yakubu, following the eleventh hour shift in the date of the scheduled Presidential/National Assembly Elections; are totally dangerous, counterproductive and a fresh trap set by the country’s ruling cabal to embark on another round of usurpation and destruction of the country’s democratic institution per INEC and its leadership. It is no
longer new and news that the present central Government of Nigeria is
controlled by a brigade of cabals with an ailing and incoherent or
“double” president; remote-controlled from left, right and center by
members of the Italian styled ruling Mafia. It has been established,
too, that the name of the incoherent president is incoherently and
vicariously used by members of the ruling cabal to dethrone the
Constitution, undermine and destroy the country’s democratic process and
institution. A clear case in point was the recent impeachment
of the country’s Judiciary by way of coupist and unconstitutional
removal of the CJN (Walter Onnoghen) using “a black market order” of an
auxiliary court (CCT). The coupist ousting was done outside the
procedures laid in the Constitution and principles of Natural Justice. Therefore,
we see the sustained calls for the removal of INEC Chairman as not only
counterproductive but also presidentially oiled.  As correctly alleged
by the leadership of CUPP, the present cabalistic presidency of Nigeria
has long thrown caution, decency and uprightness into the wind and
reduced the country’s democracy to milito-electoral college system where
anything goes with sustained alacrity. The present cabalistic
presidency of Nigeria is so misdirected, unrepentant and remorseless
that it can wake up one morning and announce a serving Major Gen as the
new Chairman of INEC. Under circumstances Nigerians have presently found
themselves, appointment of the likes of Amina Zakari as “new Acting
Chairman of INEC” is a child’s play compared to what the Administration
is capable of. Having carefully followed and studied the events
that have unfolded since the sudden and coupist shift in the date of the
Presidential Poll, it is safely correct to assert that Nigerians have
been brainwashed into singling out INEC and its leadership for
condemnation; leaving out the Presidency and its lopsidedly composed
security forces. It is an established fact that the central word
responsible for the failed Presidential Poll is “sabotage” or
“presidential “sabotage”. For instance, INEC does not control the Army,
the Navy, the Air Force, the Nigeria Police, the SSS and the
paramilitaries; but the presidency does. It was also not INEC
that diverted sensitive air borne polling materials meant for one corner
of the country to another or have them grounded without their timely
delivery. It was not INEC, too, that wanted to stagger the poll and come
up with Osun State template; which was vehemently opposed by the
Commission. There have been reported security lapses prior to the
botched poll, leading to burning of INEC kept materials including Card
Readers, PVCs and so on particularly in Plateau, Abia and Anambra State. However,
INEC is solely responsible for high incidences of underage registration
and voting, alien registration and voting, burning and destruction of
ethically marked PVCs; all done with rampant alacrity in Northern
Nigeria. INEC also spearheaded and still spearheads the lopsided or
skewed registration of voters and issuance of PVCs, especially along
North-South and Muslim-Christian lines. The Commission is culpable and
fully responsible for denial of PVCs to citizens of Christian and other
non Muslim faith in Northern Nigeria as well as the home and pastoral
(those residing in the North and Southwest) citizens of Southeast and
South-south. It is also likely an established fact that INEC has
conspired with the central ruling Government of Nigeria and its party
for purpose of front loading on Election Eve and Election Day of likely
millions of procured PVCs as validly cast votes. This was likely done
during the country-wide distribution of the so called “tradimoney” by
the Presidency as well as reported massive procurement of voters’ PVCs
or their code numbers; all done for a criminal fee. This is one of the
many rigging strategies of the Commission and its conspirator
Presidency. It is also one of the scientific rigging methods likely
adopted to return the current presidency to power at all costs. Therefore,
Nigerians must rise to the occasion and reason properly; avoiding
falling into the traps of the country’s desperate Presidency and its
ruling Party. Nigerians must disassociate themselves from calling for
the removal of INEC Chairman and instead focus their forensic and
thinkable attention at ensuring that all plans to rig the all- important
presidential poll are thwarted. Nigerians including the main opposition
candidates and truly independent rights and democracy CSOs and
international observers must follow INEC and its country-wide activities
closely and without breathing space to ward off its conspiratorial
plans with the Presidency to manipulate the polls for the ruling
Government and its party. Nigerians must not be a party to
militarisation of INEC. Intersociety is also not unaware of possibly
raging intra Fulani rift between Fulani Daji (of the forest) and Fulani
Gida (of home or sedentary background). The rift is suspected to have
played out off late following the emergence of Buhari (of Fulani Daji)
and Atiku (of Fulani Gida) as the country top presidential contenders;
which may most likely have affected or caused divisions among Northern
Muslim faithful; putting the INEC chairman in quagmire. The
above having been said in passing, therefore, Nigerians must pressurize
and prevail on INEC Chairman and his leadership to address them publicly
on daily basis till Friday, Feb 22nd 2019 on: (a) the whereabouts and
safety of all INEC sensitive materials sent out on the Eve and morning
of the botched poll, (b) concrete assurances or otherwise that millions
of ballot papers have not been ferried to hotel rooms or hidden
locations across Nigeria and thumb printed  as “validly cast votes” for
the Presidency and its ruling Party, (c) concrete assurances or
otherwise that the sudden shift for seven days was not presidentially
masterminded to perfect its rigging in conjunction with INEC, (d)
graphic disclosure and breakdown of the total number and locations of
polling booths across the country to be used in the shifted poll, (e)
concrete disclosure of the number of millions of underage voters and
aliens are given PVCs by INEC to vote in Northern Nigeria, (f)
ethno-religious disclosure and breakdown of PVC numbers and their
distribution across the country’s six geopolitical zones, (g) concrete
disclosure of the number of multiple PVC owners and voters in Northern
Nigeria and measures to stop them from voting or otherwise, (h)
statistical breakdown by the Commission of concrete measures designed to
forestall the repeat of what happened in the early hours of last
Saturday  and plans to prevent formal and technical or scientific
rigging of the shifted polls particularly the Presidential Poll in favor
the ruling Government and its Party. •Umeagbalasi, Igboeli
and Chinwe Umeche wrote on behalf of Int’l Society for Civil Liberties
& the Rule of Law (Intersociety)