Ariwodola Idowu Ado Ekiti, – The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Ekiti, on Sunday accused the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), of alleged plan to rig the Presidential and National Assembly elections in favour of the ruling All Progressives Congress, (APC). The state PDP Chairman, Chief Gboyega Oguntuase, who addressed a news
conference at Afao Ekiti, the country home of former Gov. Ayo Fayose,
alleged that INEC was slow in withdrawing electoral materials earlier
distributed for the polls before its postponement. Oguntuase also accused the commission of having disparities in the electoral materials brought from its headquarters in Abuja. The chairman who said materials for the conduct of the Presidential
and Senatorial elections did not get to the state until the wee hours of
Saturday, said sensitive materials, especially those for House of
Representatives election were not complete. “There were no result sheets for Ward (Form EC8B) and Local
Government (EC8C) as well as result sheets for final collation (Form
EC8D) and announcement of final results (Form EC8E). “Also, there was excess Polling Units Result Sheets (EC8A). The
excess were more than two times the number of polling units in Ekiti
State. “This is to say that each of the Polling Units in Ekiti State has more than one result sheet. “As at the wee hours of Saturday; only electoral materials for the
conduct of House of Representatives, Presidential and South Senatorial
elections were brought to Ekiti, leaving those for Central and North
Senatorial Districts.
“Immediately after the postponement, instruction was given to INEC
offices at the Local Councils to withdraw all the materials already
distributed and deposit same with the CBN, except the Card Readers which
they said needed to be reconfigured. “Why did it take INEC officials in some of the local governments
until 7 p.m. to return the electoral materials to the CBN office in Ado
Ekiti, when directive to return the materials was issued as early as 8
a.m. on Saturday? “Consequently, we are demanding that we be allowed by INEC and CBN to
double-check all the electoral materials, more particularly the
sensitive materials,’’ he said. The state party chairman also expressed concern over alleged
indiscriminate arrest and harassment of members and supporters of the
PDP by men of the State Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS).
“At about 1.00 a.m. on Saturday, over ten people, including lodgers were
arrested at a hotel in Are-Ekiti, owned by the Director General of the
Atiku/Obi Presidential Campaign Council in Ekiti State, Chief Dipo
Anisulowo and were detained till evening. “Also, nine of our party supporters, including the mother of our
House of Representatives candidate in Ekiti South Constituency (1),
Segun Adekola were arrested in Igbara-Odo while another supporter was
arrested in Ilawe-Ekiti.’’ Refuting the allegations that APC members were behind the attacks on
PDP supporters, the Director General, Buhari/Osinbajo campaign council
in Ekiti, Dr Olusegun Osinkolu, said the party had no reason to resort
to anti-democratic means to win elections. “APC is on ground in Ekiti. We did not attack anyone when we won
governorship election here as an opposition, Why should we now resort to
such acts when we are the ruling party in the state and at the federal
level? “PDP is just looking for whom to blame for its impending woes. They
should look inward and settle their differences, rather than pointing
accusing fingers at a wrong direction,’’ he said.
When contacted, the INEC Public Relations Officer in Ekiti, Alhaji Taiwo
Gbadegesin, however dismissed the PDP allegations, saying all sensitive
materials distributed in the state had been withdrawn and kept at the
CBN office in Ado Ekiti. Gbadegesin said the commission dispatched its vehicles and security
men on Saturday to retrieve ballot papers and result sheets across the
state. “These allegations are not correct. All the materials distributed on Friday have been withdrawn.
“As we speak, they are in CBN for safe keeping while our smart card
readers are here in our office, because they have to be reconfigured,’’
he said.