By Olawale Jokotoye Abeokuta – Proceedings at the distribution of the Federal Government’s ‘Trader Moni’ loan came to an abrupt end on Tuesday in Abeokuta, Ogun,  as some hoodlums stormed the Lafenwa Market,  venue of the programme,  to disrupt it. The Trader  Moni scheme is a Federal Government  social intervention
programme which provides interest-free loans of N10,000 at the first
instance  to micro enterprises across the country. The programme was, however,  disrupted by hoodlums suspected to be
political thugs after they   whisked away the market’s   woman leader to
an unknown place after dispersing the traders. A check by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) revealed that the
hoodlums arrived at the venue when the registration of the market women
was on-going and subsequently stopped proceedings. Some of the market women who spoke with NAN correspondent at the venue expressed disappointment at the development. A pepper seller, who simply identified herself as Morenikeji,  told
NAN that the Chairman of Abeokuta North-West Local Council Development
Area (LCDA), Hon. Monsuru Shorunke, led those who chased away the market
men and women before they eventually took away  the market woman
leader. NAN reports that the woman leader had since returned. But when contacted, Shorunke confirmed to NAN in a telephone
interview that he led some people  to Lafenwa to disperse a gathering
where some politicians were giving money to market women in exchange for
their Permanent Voters Cards. “I was in front of the governor (Ibikunle Amosun)  when we heard that
some people came to Lafenwa market  collecting people’s PVCs from the
traders with their names and PVC  numbers. “The governor said we should go out and find out. ” It was Governor  Amosun that sent us. I was in front of the governor when we heard the information. “So, I collected Iyaloja’s phone number from Hon. Akintona. We took
Iyaloja to the governor’s house along with Babaloja of Lafenwa. “We believe it was wrong for them to come and collect people’s PVCs
with numbers before election day. That was what they came to do at
Lafenwa. “My message is that we should be vigilant, not only the electorate, but all the politicians in Ogun State. “We must be vigilant.  They want to give them money because of the coming election and it is wrong,” he said. (NAN)