By Fatima Mohammed-Lawal Ilorin, – Prof. Is’haq Oloyede, Registrar, Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB), has warned the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) and other student bodies to shun violence in the upcoming general elections. The Registrar gave the warning on Thursday in his lecture at the
First National Stakeholders’ Dialogue organised by Zero Tolerance For
Social Immoralities Initiative (ZETSI) held in Ilorin. Oloyede advised the student body to focus on the exercise and not to
be distracted with challenges surrounding the electoral process. He also urged them to collect their voter cards, guard it jealously and exercise their rights. Oloyede, who spoke on the theme: “Ensuring Free, Fair and Credible
Election in 2019: The Role of Stakeholders”, said the only antidote to
credible and violent free polls was to remain focused on the election
rather than its side attractions. The registrar was represented on the occasion by a former Director of
the Centre for Peace and Strategic Studies, University of Ilorin, Dr
Mahfouz Adedimeji. The JAMB registrar enjoined Nigerian students and the entire populace
to demonstrate high level of maturity and decorum before, during and
after the elections, so as to record hitch-free elections in Nigeria. He expressed optimism that the forthcoming general elections will
record a resounding success if all stakeholders play the game according
to the rule. He, however, called on Independent National Electoral Commission
(INEC), security agencies, civil society organisations, the media and
politicians to ensure that all hands are on deck towards achieving the
most acceptable election in the country. Earlier, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) Kwara State
Command, Mr Ajayi Okasanmi, said the police are up to the task to
maintain peace and order before, during and after the elections. The President of Well-being Foundation Africa, an NGO, and wife of
Senate President, Mrs Toyin Saraki, who was represented by Mrs Funsho
Abdullahi, wife of former Minister for Sport, advised Nigerian youths to
shun violence and all forms of illicit acts that are capable of scuttle
the elections. The President of ZETSI Africa, Mr Razak Jeje, said ZETSI African a
Non-Governmental Organisation has its mission to sustain new generation
ideology in line with 21st century framework. He explained that the NGO is populated by active young men and women
of repute, dedicated and committed to a selfless service toward curbing
the menace such as corruption, terrorism, cyber-crime, prostitution and
drug abuse among others.