By Rukayat Adeyemi Lagos – Dr Tony Dansu, Secretary, Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Lagos State University (LASU) Chapter, says lecturers of the institution will resume work on Monday. Dansu in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday
in Lagos said the development was as a result of the suspension of the
three-month strike embarked upon by the union since Nov. 4, 2018. NAN reports that ASUU had on Thursday, Feb. 7, suspended the over
three months strike following a “palatable agreement” it reached with
the Federal Government. The union’s demands include: a shortfall in salaries of some Federal
Universities’ workers and lecturers, unpaid Earned Academic Allowances
and the revitalisation of projects that were part of the 2009 agreement 
among others. “We have called a congress for Monday by 11 a.m. and we shall officially inform our members to resume work at the congress. “Academic activities will commence on Monday immediately after the congress,” the union leader said. Meanwhile, Prof. Olanrewaju Fagbohun, the Vice-Chancellor of the
university, has in a statement welcomed students of the institution back
from the ASUU nationwide strike that paralysed academic activities in
most public universities in Nigeria. Fagbohun said academic activities for the ongoing session in the
university resumes immediately, as the semester and session had been
overstretched. “This explains why we all must fully work together to get the LASU academic calendar back on track. “We urge our world-class students to earnestly do what is expected of
them in the areas of course registration and payment of school fees. “Also in preparation for examination as we cannot afford to further drag our academic calendar, ” Fagbohun said. He appreciated the unwavering commitment and selfless service of the university workforce to the LASU project. The vice-chancellor said the university was looking up to its staff
in every department, unit, faculty, directorate and centre to provide
leadership and work towards ensuring all academic and administrative
activities hit top gear immediately. “At this time, very distinguished colleagues, LASU needs us to once
again rise to the occasion and show unprecedented efficiency and
effectiveness. “The LASU story has never been about easy starts or luxurious journeys. “Our history has been that of a university community, blessed with
hard working staff and creative students who are capable of turning even
the most unlikely situations around. “We are a community that has emerged stronger from our challenging
times and we are now building a prosperous and peaceful university,” he
added. Fagbohun also urged members of the university community to
collectively push the frontiers, stand up for the ideals of its founding
fathers and ensure that no bottleneck drew the institution back in any
form.
(NAN)