ONITSHA (Press Release) – Though we, the Southeast Based Coalition of
Human Rights & Democracy Organizations (a coalition of 22 human
rights & democracy organizations) are deeply shocked and dismayed
over the roles of retrogressive and destructive forces in the Mainland
and outpost Igbo parts of Eastern Nigeria, but such retrogressive and
destructive roles are not unexpected or seen as a surprise or unheard
of. These retrogressive and destructive roles are in connection with the
fate and future of the Igbo Nation ahead of the 2019 General Elections
in Nigeria particularly the Presidential Poll. Rather, such
retrogressive and destructive roles should serve as a big and
unforgettable lesson to the entire Igbo People of Nigeria including not
keeping a short memory or being flimsily dismissive of the retrogressive
and destructive roles and their players. Names of such retrogressive
and destructive forces and roles played shall be profiled and documented
across board and kept for the day of reckoning; whether political,
economic, cultural, and social or camouflaged self determination
agitations. Smiling To Bank On The Blood Of Massacred Igbo Sons & Daughters For
too long, the age long ordeals suffered or passed through by the Igbo
People of Nigeria, represented in the context of structural, physical
and cultural violence perpetrated and perpetuated at state actor and non
state actor levels in the country or any part thereof; have been used
by generations of retrogressive and destructive forces to earn
undeserved social or societal positions and crookedly enriched their
pockets and themselves. On the blood and tribulations of their own
people and ethnic nationality, these retrogressive and destructive
forces have stood and earned their cursed living including criminal and
vicious castles, mansions, marriages, exotic cars, etc. Pretended
as “freedom fighters” or “independent statehood activists” or “human
rights defenders” or “democracy promoters” or “people’s governors” or
“people’s legislators” or “Igbo leaders” or “Igbo born security chiefs”
or “leaders of Igbo socio-political or think tank organizations”, etc;
these retrogressive and destructive forces or “profiteers of miseries of
the Igbo People and their Nation” have done more harm to the Igbo sub
Race and their emancipation struggles than “outside” enemies of the Igbo
People and their Nation. Hiding under collective sentiments or
social emancipations such as “Igbo or Biafra rebirth” or “defense of
Igbo rights” or “social, economic, cultural and political emancipation,
development and ethnic identity of the Igbo People and their Nation”;
these retrogressive and destructive forces have, once their pretended
agitations gained collective currency and legitimacy, relapsed and shown
their true color-swindling, criminal enrichment, backbiting, sabotage,
betrayal and abandonment of the cause they pretended to be fighting for
people of their own ethnic nationality. We have seen these
severally or on several occasions in the pro Biafra movements,
legislative chambers, gubernatorial corridors, socio-cultural movements,
intelligentsia groups, “Igbo” political parties, “human rights”
campaigns, church activities, geopolitical allotment of offices and
resources including Federal and State constituency projects, to mention
but few. These retrogressive and destructive forces are so mean,
heartless, wicked, shameless and conscienceless that whenever reports
or findings are made cataloguing and exposing the killing and maiming of
their defenseless brothers and sisters by perpetrators of State terror
and other violent non state actors, they rush for copies of such reports
and use them to swindle the named or suspected perpetrators
particularly the public office holders or crookedly rich ex public
office holders. These they do in the form of “image laundering”
for a fee including writing and submission of frivolous petitions
against the researchers of the reports, organizing rented crowd as
protesters and media conferences or holding “human rights award”
sessions for the perpetrators named or listed, etc. In other words,
whenever such atrocity crimes reports are released, they instantly
become “bloody diamond or gold” for the retrogressive and destructive
forces; making them to smile to their banks on the altar of the blood of
their murdered brothers and sisters. These despicable acts are
also very common among the so called “freedom fighters” or “secessionist
activists” and “intelligentsia groups”.  Among the latter are “doctors”
or adulterators of such reports and those who use them to earn masters’
and doctorate degrees or professorial titles only; instead of
fundamentally using them and their prime positions to seek and get
justice for their murdered brothers and sisters as well as ensuring that
the perpetrators are brought to book or made to kiss the iron bars of
prisons. Red Capping Dei Dei Or Alaba Market Garage Touts For Aso Rock Trips According
to Nze Na Ozo Emeka Umeagbalasi (Intersociety Boss), “it is also common
among these retrogressive and destructive forces to organize groups and
trips to Aso Rock on “image laundering-for-money visits” with newly
bought red caps from Alaba or Dei Dei Market, etc. In Igbo Land, the
original traditional title holders especially members of the Nze Na Ozo
noble class are marked out by their worn out or old red caps signifying
decades of initiation or holding of such titles. Those whose red caps
wear new looks are classified as newly initiated or new entrants into
the noble Ozo title. Others wearing new or fresh red caps are described
as “Okoros in red caps” or “urban red cap chiefs” including urban chief
thugs and those in touting occupation. “In other words, they are
“Nze n’ agus” or commoners who perch red caps on their hairs (not heads)
without authorization or passing through rigorous initiation rites and
processes in their rural communities. Ozo titles are not taken in urban
areas except among the aborigines of the cities (i.e. people of Onicha
Mmili or Onitsha). Real red cap chiefs rarely wear their caps in urban
cities to avoid contamination. These “Okoros-in-red-caps” include the
rented groups of outpost markets’ garage touts or clothed street urchins
with no lineage of Nze Na Ozo titles in their generational lineages. Among
them must have been those who went to Aso Rock on 8th February 2019 or
those that had gone to same in the recent past under such
circumstantially and heavily induced circumstances. It is therefore
likely a fact to say that those that trouped to Aso Rock on the said
date are nothing short of “Alaba or Dei Dei Market garage touts”, red
capped with newly arrived China bound red caps and ferried to Aso Rock
on “political image laundering for fat pocket” trip. Other Characteristics Of Retrogressive Forces In Igbo Eastern Nigeria Retrogressive
and destructive forces in Igbo Nation are also marked out as follows:
(1) they are viruses finding their ways as “founders” or “key members”
into various Igbo emancipation bodies such as those named above as well
as human rights and democracy bodies, (2) they are talk show “experts”
in various gatherings and forums including long grammar speakers, (3)
they are wolves in sheep clothing and always harbor dubious intents but
pretend as “social crusaders”. Others are: (4) they are serial
saboteurs and betrayers  and when trusted and taken brotherly to the
bush for hunting, they turn round and shoot their fellow brothers as
“wild animals”; (5) when elected or appointed to govern or administer,
they end up as “monumental failures or failed statesmen or public office
holders” and (6) they are collective security threats and more
dangerous than outside enemies; and can sell their kinsmen and women  as
well as their Ethnic Nationality for a cursed fee or criminal
enrichment. Condemning FG/APC’s Vote PMB Or Your Ethnic Persecution/Collective Violence Threats The
Coalition is therefore shocked and dismayed with total condemnation the
litany of threats and various forms of corruptive measures adopted by
the Presidency and its ruling Party to force the Igbo Nation to
slavishly vote for same in the next Saturday’s Presidential Poll. It
saddens our heart that a Government that has made the loudest noise of
“fighting corruption” could engage in brazen recruitment and reported or
circumstantial inducement of the retrogressive and destructive forces
among Igbo population to divide the People of Igbo Nation and force them
into voting APC and its Presidential Candidate outside their will and
collective resolve. The Federal Government is so recklessly
determined that it is bent on getting the Igbo Nation at all costs to
slavishly vote for it. Despite organizing or superintending series of
butcheries, military sieges, economic destructions, collective security
threats and communal invasions, political segregations and exclusions,
recruitment of puppets and other forms of structural, physical and
cultural violence as catalogued in Intersociety’s special report (under
Buhari & Osinbajo: many have gone & crippled for life in Eastern
Nigeria); the Buhari Administration has remained unyielding,
remorseless and unrepentant with audacity and alacrity; to the extent
that more threats are being let loose or unleashed, reminding the Igbo
Nation what would happen to them “if Buhari does not win in the
Southeast”. This is nothing short of pushing a people to the wall, which
could have calamitous consequences in short or long run. Condemning Oligarchic Slavery Roles Of Govs Obiano & Umahi Of Anambra & Ebonyi Specifically
condemned are the oligarchic slavery roles of Govs William Obiano of
Anambra and Dave Umahi of Ebonyi States who have abandoned their People
and chosen to become more oligarchic puppets than Gov Rochas Okorocha of
Imo State. In the case of Gov Obiano, he has chronically abandoned
governance of the State which he was elected in 2013 and 2017 to do.
Anambra State under him is in quandary and he has sadly transformed
himself into “Emperor or Kingly Governor”; governing the State outside
the confines of collectivism or welfarism and only according to his
whims and caprices. The Road network in Anambra State has collapsed;
likewise drainages and waterways which have blocked and become a serious
threat in the incoming rainy season. Several failed State roads are
begging for rehabilitation or Government attention, all to no avail. The
massive road construction and reconstruction with which the State was
known for as at the last quarter of 2014, has become a thing of the past
in the State. The State has also become a safe haven for all
kinds of touts, street urchins and criminals; to the extent that women
petty traders and widows can no longer move a kilometer with their food
stuff or kitchen utensils particularly in Onitsha, Nnewi and their
adjoining cities without threats of being lynched or beaten to a pulp
unless each of them coughs out thousands of naira for a food stuff bag
of not more than N5, 000; members of the trading population are not
spared, too, yet the Governor is busy running from pillar to pole
forcing a presidential bad market on Anambra People in particular and
People of the Igbo Nation in general. Why Is The APGA Presidential Candidate Allegedly Lavished With Over N600m Anambra Money? The
Coalition was authoritatively informed late last year that the
Government of Anambra State “facilitated a whopping cash of N500m and
nine vehicles including brown new campaign buses and SUVs” to the
“Presidential Candidate of APGA”. The APGA Presidential Candidate was
said to have received same the day of the Party’s flag off. The
Government of Anambra State was asked to credibly confirm or deny or
throw more light into same vide the Coalition’s open letter dated 16th
December 2018, till date, no official response has come from the
Obiano’s Government of Anambra State. See the Coalition’s open letter here: https://www.thenigerianvoice.com/news/273712/appointment-of-next-igbo-igp-and-public-declaration-on-the-p.html The
said cash of N500m when added to monetary value of the said nine
vehicles clearly indicates that Anambra State must have lost not less
than N600m to N700m to such political gambling. Yet, the Gov and his
aides are ceaselessly running riot on web, electronic and print media
campaigning for PMB and abandoning their own “Presidential Candidate”;
all at the expense of Anambra State and the entire People of Igbo
Nation. Taming The Retrogressive Forces & Their Puppetry Masters It
is therefore clear and shocking that Governors Obiano of Anambra State
and Umahi of Ebonyi State and the central Government of Muhammadu Buhari
and Yemi Osinbajo know nothing about the principles of democracy and
universal adult suffrage. They must be tutored here and now that voting
is a conscientious and moral obligation of every eligible citizen or
group of voting population. It is beyond the powers and authority of any
Government including the present Governments of Anambra and Ebonyi
States and the Buhari/Osinbajo central Administration to force people
especially the Igbo Ethnic Nationality to cast their votes for a
particular Government or political party. Under the 1999 Constitution,
too, civil and political rights including political participation,
voting and representation are inviolably fundamental and justiciable. No
amount of desperation or threats of structural violence or ethnic
cleansing can change same or force the Igbo People to do otherwise. Also
Political office tenure in Nigeria is not permanent. The Buhari
Administration will one day be a bygone and all its vicarious and direct
misdeeds including series of butcheries, military sieges, economic
destructions, collective security threats and communal invasions,
political segregations and exclusions, recruitment of puppets and other
forms of structural, physical and cultural violence severally and
serially organized against the Igbo Nation would be revisited, likewise
the retrogressive and destructive forces recruited or used to perpetrate
and perpetuate same. The central Government of Nigeria had
existed since almost four years and fully piloted and executed the
policy of structural, cultural and physical violence against the Igbo
Nation including ostracizing the sub Race from the country’s top
security establishments and other important projects such as national
railway and seaport projects and befitting international airport. If by
bare faced or scientific rigging, widely expected to play out next week
Saturday, 16th February 2019, the present central Government finds its
way back to power and decides to continue the orchestrated persecution
against the Igbo Nation and her People, let it be strongly noted here
again that the sub Race shall endure and survive same waiting for the
day of reckoning which must surely come either in togetherness or in
apart. Other ways of taming the retrogressive and destructive
forces and their nuisances in Igbo Eastern Nigeria are by henceforth
treating or regarding their comments and activities as trash. Further
efforts shall be made to isolate and exclude them from forums where
critical issues and decisions regarding the Igbo Nation, their
interests, welfare and future are discussed or taken. Condemning Retrogressive Attacks On Mainstream Igbo Groups Over Their Presidential Poll Stance The
Coalition hereby condemns in strongest term sustained attempts by the
Presidency through corruptive means and threats to create divisions in
several mainstream Igbo organizations including the OHANAEZE Ndigbo and
others that recently reviewed the ongoing political trends in the
country and resolved to pitch tent with a political and its presidential
candidate.  Such adoptive positions taken by leading socio-cultural
groupings across Nigeria including OHANAEZE Ndigbo are commendable, well
informed and thoughtful. This is more so when they are coherent with
political realities on the ground and the Chapter Four of the 1999
Constitution as well as Nigeria’s ratified and domesticated treaty laws.
The attacks and other forms of campaign of calumny against the John
Nnia Nwodo led OHANAEZE Ndigbo; strictly in the instant case, are hereby
condemned. Finally, we call on those who are bent on not being
part of the adoptive position of the mainstream Igbo People and
organizations including Govs William Obiano of Anambra State and Dave
Umahi of Ebonyi State to pursue their selfish political interests on
their own and leave the Igbo Nation, her People and their collective
interests and welfare out of same. Henceforth, there must be clear cut
separation between pursuit of personal political interests and critical
issues affecting the Igbo Nation. Hiding under the “interests and
welfare of Igbo Nation” to swindle, misinform and mislead the Ethnic
Nationality must no longer be tolerated. However, the Coalition
recognizes the rights of Buharists in Igbo Land to dine and wine and
even swim with the concept of Buharism, symbolized by their presidential
bad market in Igbo Nation; provided they are done leaving the entire
Igbo Nation and their collective interests and welfare out of it. Issues
of Second Niger Bridge project and an additional State proposal clearly
go beyond the powers and authority of Gov Obiano of Anambra State. In
his capacity as Anambra Gov, he is an interloper in the subject matter.
This is more so when he is neither the Chairman of the Southeast
Governors Forum nor the elected or anointed spiritual leader of the Igbo
Nation. Gov Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State who is the Chair of Southeast
Govs Forum has, on his own part, lost legitimacy and moral authority to
lead or speak for Igbo People. For: Southeast Based Coalition of Human Rights & Democracy Organisations (SBCHROs) •Int’l Society for Civil Liberties & the Rule of Law (Emeka Umeagbalasi & Chinwe Umeche, Esquire) •CLO, Southeast Zone (Comrade Aloysius Emeka Attah) •CLO, Anambra State Branch (Comrade Vincent Ezekwueme & Comrade Chidi Mbah) •Forum for Promotion of National Ethos & Values (FPNEV: Prince Emeka Onyesoh) •Igbo Ekunie Initiative (Tochukwu Ezeoke, UK) •Int’l Solidarity for Peace & Human Rights Initiative (ISPHRI: Jerry Chidozie Chukwuokoro, PhD) •Foundation for Environmental Rights, Advocacy & Dev (FENRAD: Comrade Nnana Nelson Nwafor) •Society for Economic Rights & Social Justice (SERSj: Andy Ndukwe) •Human Rights Organization of Nigeria (HRON: Comrade Samuel Njoku •Center for Human Rights & Peace Advocacy (CHRPA: Comrade Peter Onyegiri) •Southeast Good Governance Forum (SEGGF: Alex Olisa) •Society Watch & Advocacy Project (of Intersociety)-WASP (Comrade Chike Umeosonwunne) •Initiative for Ideal Dev & Emancipatory Leadership in Nigeria (IDEAL: Comrade Nwokocha Anozie Innocent) •Igbo National Council (INC) (Comrade Chilos A.C. Godsent & Comrade Zulu Ofoelue) •Anambra Human Rights Forum (ANHRF: Obianuju Igboeli, Esquire) •Voice of the Voiceless Int’l (VOVI) (Violet Umenwofor-Ezekwike, Esquire) •Easy Life Initiative for Rural Youths (ELIRY: Comrade Emeku Uche) •Community Empowerment Network (Rep) •Southeast Movement against Transactional Politics & Profligacy (Comrade Bright Obidike) •Prof Justice Chidi (Academia) •Neighborhood Environmental Watch Foundation (Okezie Kelechi)