ONITSHA (Sundiata Post) -The Southeast Based
Coalition of Human Rights & Democracy Organisations (SBCHROs), a
coalition of 22 human rights & democracy organisations, has
expressed worry over what it called “the rise and consolidation of
political cabal in Nigeria.” In a statement it
sent to Sundiata Post on Wednesday, the coalition said “By Wikipedia
account, a political cabal is a small group of people united in some
close or clandestine or sinister design, usually to promote their
private views of or interests in an ideology, state, or other community,
often by intrigue and usually unbeknownst to those outside their group
particularly the general population.” The full statement reads: The
rise of Italian type political mafia or cabal in Nigeria since 2016 has
been consolidated and taken its toll on Nigerian politics and its
political leadership. The rise and consolidation arose out of the
President’s ill health. Got drunk by power and political bounties and
privileges, members of the cabal had cashed in and consolidated. Drawn
from political and family friends and associates of the President, key
figures in military and political circles and key political appointees
including senior lawyers; the cabal has refused to let go; consolidating
its grips on power in Nigeria, all at collective expense of Nigerians
and the country’s regional and international partners. The cabal
moved in and consolidated following reported deterioration of Mr.
President’s ill health in 2016, reaching its peak in 2017. The cabal and
the presidential media managers and some sectional media outfits and
their partners in the National Legislative Arm of Government have
refused to do the needful including informing Nigerians and taking
unbiased steps in ascertaining the true health condition of Mr.
President especially as it concerns his mental stability or otherwise;
all in accordance with relevant provisions of the 1999 Constitution, as
amended. From public disclosures, electronic footages and
analyses arising from the ongoing Presidential campaigns and rallies
across the country, it has been circumstantially and sufficiently
established that Mr. President of Nigeria has a case to answer with
respect to his mental health or stability. It is generally feared that
Mr. President of Nigeria is barely coherent which explains his camera
and video captured missteps of words or speech incoherence. It is also
generally believed that it is on this premise that the central ruling
cabal has capitalized on to “seize power and resorted to political
dictates” in the country. One of his campaign directors, who is “a
learned silk” has since admitted same but attributed same to have also
happened to “Jesus” and “Mohammed”. In law and criminology, a
child under seven years is not capable of committing crime owing to his
or her absence of mental coherence. A person medically or bodily found
to be mentally challenged has defenses in law if committed a crime of
murder or attempted one, etc. An aging political office holder of say,
80yrs, may still be allowed to govern provided his or her mental senses
still coordinate well or has not been found or seriously suspected of
suffering from infirmity of mind or mental incoherence. Once the
opposite is seriously suspected and medically established, he or she
ceases to serve in public office. It is further on this premise
that members of the ruling cabal now dictate the “political piper and
tune in Nigeria”. Cashing in on the widely suspected “mental
incoherence” of Mr. President, the ruling cabal now turns the country
upside down and pilots its affairs according to their whims and caprices
including perpetrating or committing litany of presidential blunders
and misdeeds such as recent unconstitutional removal of the CJN, Mr.
Justice Walter Onnoghen. The saddest of it all is that such
misdeeds and blunders were committed or perpetrated and  are still
perpetrated using the name of Mr. President; with intents to vicariously
heap all the blames and damnations, at last, on the ailing President
and his name. Under the principle of vicarious liability, the
perpetrators of these presidential blunders and misdeeds have smartly
but crookedly positioned themselves to escape culpability and
transmogrify or become turncoats in subsequent dispensations so as to
continue their evil machinations and sinister roles. Totality of
these explains why the US Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr. Stuart Symington,
on 7th February 2019 in Makurdi, Benue State at his post gubernatorial
meeting interview with journalists warned Nigerian public officials and
the entire Nigerians “not to be deceived or misled by politicians who
may issue illegal directives to them using the name of President
Muhammadu Buhari”. The US Ambassador said this after he visited and met
with the Benue State Governor, Mr. Samuel Ortom over the 2019 general
polls. More details are found in the following link:   https://www.thetrentonline.com/2019-polls-obey-illegal-directives-issued-buhari-name-u-s-cautions-officials/ Our Fears Over The 2019 Presidential Poll From
every indication especially going by investigations conducted across
the country by our Coalition, the 2019 Presidential Election taking
place in three days time is likely to be thousands of miles away from
being forensically, circumstantially and ethno-religiously credible,
participatory, free and widely acceptable. The Poll is already marred by
several manipulative pre-determinants and chiefly affected by “Jega PVC
virus” or “scientific rigging through PVCs”. It is recalled that
the Nigerian population particularly the Southern and Northern
Christian voting and eligible populations were infested with “Jega PVC
virus” way back in 2014 and 2015 during the “continuous and general
voters’ registration and revalidation exercises”. The “Jega PVC virus”
not only led to gross lopsidedness in the registration of voters and
distribution of PVCs between the North and the South, but also saw
almost all Northern Muslims including the physically and visually
challenged captured as voters and issued with PVCs till date as against
millions of Southerners particularly citizens of Southeast and
South-south Regions and Northern Christians deliberately shut out,
frustrated and denied registration and issuance of PVCs till date. High
incidences of non issuance of PVCs to those that struggled to be
registered in Southern Nigeria and members of the Northern Christian and
other non Muslim population were widely reported; likewise sinisterly
motivated burning or destruction of PVCs belonging to non Muslims across
the country.  During the said exercises, members of the Northern Muslim
population were so captured as registered voters with most of them
issued with PVCs that millions of minors and hundreds of thousands, not
millions of aliens possibly from Chad, Niger and others from neighboring
African countries were captured, registered and issued with PVCs as
“registered voters in Nigeria”; whereas in the South and Christian
settlements in the North, revise was the case and has remained so till
date. Till date, too, INEC has continued to recognize and retain
those millions of minors; most of whom were as young as eight to twelve
years in 2015 as “registered voters in Nigeria”. Today, they are among
the voting population expected to vote in the 2019 Presidential Poll;
likewise hundreds of thousands, if not millions of widely suspected
aliens registered or captured as “voters in Nigeria”. The widely
suspected teeming registered alien populations are strongly believed to
be among the present Northwest and Northeast registered voting
population, allowed into the country on account of their Islamic and
language identities. Suspicion is still rife and strong that more
of them were recently given PVCs and prepared to be allowed to vote in
this Saturday’s presidential poll. The tragedy of it all was that in the
2015 President Poll in the Northern Muslim States of Kebbi, Zamfara,
Katsina, etc where both the blind, the deaf and dumb and the old voted,
by INEC account, “there was no single invalid vote cast”. INEC
under Jega had in 2014 and 2015 unofficially introduced and maintained
discriminatory and imbalance voters’ registration methods between the
North and the South or between Muslims and Christians. In the said
imbalance voters’ registration and revalidation policies, registrants in
the North (Muslims) were widely allowed to be registered and issued
PVCs through proxies (.i.e. family, clan and district heads or imams and
emirs) while those in the South and Northern Christian populations were
strictly asked to be bodily present at registration centers for
registration and collection of PVCs. In the course of adhering
strictly to such hash and imbalance conditions, those who turned out
were made to pass through other rigorous conditions including deliberate
shortage in registration materials and their personnel and imposition
of sundry biometric requirements, extortion, etc. On account of such
deliberately imposed hash conditions, many prospective registrants
stayed away or left the registration centers in anger, frustration and
disappointment. Many who wanted to do “voters’ cards transfer” or
reclaim their lost PVCs or collect their PVCs or get freshly registered
all got frustrated by such deliberate hash policies or conditions as
well as other corruptive and unfriendly activities of the INEC field
staff deployed. Today, none of such hash policies and conducts
has changed. As a matter of fact they have gone from bad to worse.
Totality of these explains why the Northwest Region presently has almost
two times double the number of PVCs than the Southeast Region; with
over 19m as against 10m for Southeast. Cases of multiple registrations
are also widely suspected to be very high in the North especially among
Northern Muslim populations. Shockingly, there are more PVCs in the
insurgency ravaged Northeast Region than in the non war Southeast or
South-south Region. In the just concluded PVC collection exercise
across Nigeria, the mappings used in 2014 to 2015 to identify Northern
Christian settlements and areas of Southwest and Northern Nigeria
dominated or inhabited by Judeo-Christian Igbo Citizens have been
retained by INEC. Similar ethno-religiously marked mappings have also
been used by Boko Haram and Fulani jihadist genocidists to identify and
launch their various violent attacks on Christian settlements and
communities in Northern Nigeria.  Apart from difficulties in locating
and retrieving their PVCs, there were reported incidences of ethnically
and religiously marked PVCs and TVCs lumped or gathered in large numbers
and burnt or destroyed. This is in addition to three fire incidents in
twelve days, in Isialangwa, Abia State, Pan LGA in Plateau State and
Awka, Anambra State. By the recent account of Mr. Mark Jacob, an
international speaker against the persecution of Christians and former
Attorney Gen of Kaduna State, “Christian settlements have scanty polling
units in the North”. He further noted as follows: “You can imagine that
even the simple issue of constituency delineation is in favour of the
Muslims. Voting centers in the Christian dominated settlements in the
North are scanty. The Christian communities have very little voting
strength; people will have to trek several kilometers before they can
cast their votes. This is not the same in other areas occupied mainly by
the Muslims in my state, for instance, the section of Kaduna State,
occupied by Christians, have lesser polling units and this has caused a
lot of disenfranchisement”. More details of his recent interview are
here: https://punchng.com/christian-settlements-have-scanty-polling-units-in-the-north-jacob-kaduna-ex-ag/?fbclid=IwAR3huezOgtwJ6jEyGsQVJZWUgMwpbbd3RUxzZlKjf6wibO8nJSp0oatWHmw Other Fears Over The 2019 Presidential Poll •The
present composition and peopling of INEC and its recent broad day
electoral robbery in Osun and Ekiti States are clear attestation of its
gross incompetence and lack of independence, neutrality and
impartiality. •The central Government of Nigeria has
circumstantially not hidden its determination to rig the 2019 Polls
particularly the Presidential Poll. The unguarded utterances of the
National Chairman of the central ruling party and Gov Nasiru el-Rufai of
Kaduna State and brazen display of bias and manipulative body languages
by the country’s security chiefs are further attestation or indication. •Various
rigging or electoral manipulative options also circumstantially abound.
They include coded and un-coded methods of vote buying such as
tradimoney policy of the Federal Government, operationally supervised by
the Vice President. •There have been several reports across the
country of procurement of PVCs or copying and taking away of PVC code
numbers by agents of the central ruling party. From Anambra governorship
poll experience of November 2017, these purchased PVCs or their code
numbers which may most likely be in their millions are likely to be
systematized and uploaded on Election Day in the INEC central data or
data strong rooms as validly cast votes. •This can be perfected
by hired thumb printing of commensurate number of ballot papers. In
Anambra State, it was found that over 8,540 accredited voters did not
vote; meaning that those hired to thumb print ran out of time; leaving
behind the 8,540 accredited voters who never voted despite the fact that
“simultaneous accreditation and voting method” was used. •Intersociety
had specifically written INEC and urged same to introduce electronic
voting to exist side by side with manual voting in Nigeria, all to no
avail. The letter was written on 2nd December 2017 barely one month
after the Anambra Governorship Poll of 18th November 2017. •In
furtherance of vote buying and voter intimidation plans circumstantially
linked to the central ruling Party, several political contractors and
owners of oil wells as well as some serving non central ruling party’s
governors have been hired including in Anambra State, mobilized and
equipped to provide cash and “deliver” their States or areas at all
costs using assigned and deployed election day security agents •It
is widely feared that INEC will apply soft methods of voting in the
North especially among Muslim voters and apply hash methods in the South
particularly Southeast and South-south and among Northern Christian
settlements and communities. •Such discriminatory methods will
involve possible discarding of use of card readers and widespread manual
and multiple voting in the named Northern Muslim areas and strict
application of use of card readers in the named Christian areas of
Southeast, South-south and Northern Christian areas and Igbo dominated
areas in the Southwest •Inconsistencies have also characterized
INEC’s 2019 elections’ handling styles including strange and revised
mode of thumb printing; thereby making the Commission serially probating
and reprobating. •Threats of group violence by northern Muslim
youths are likely going to be high and wide spread in Northern Nigeria
especially; to be deliberately designed to create or inflict fears among
opposite voting population and deployed INEC staff including serving
members of the NYSC so as to cower them to do their bidding and have
their own field day during the poll. Collusion by deployed security
agents with the named violent or potentially violent Northern youths is
expected to be high and widespread owing to domination of the country’s
security forces by members of the same Muslim religious fate. •Insurgency
inflicted fears and terrors are likely to be cashed in and manipulated
by desperate agents of the central ruling party in the Northeast. •Presidential
Voting in Northern Nigeria especially among Muslims are expected to be
characterized and contaminated by multiple voters and millions of
registered aliens and minors with deployed INEC staff being helpless and
security agents looking the other way but operate with red eyes in
Southern Nigeria especially Southeast, South-south, Northern Christian
settlements and other Northern and Southwest areas dominated by citizens
of Southeast and South-south Nigeria •Security agents and their
establishments owing to their gross lopsided composition (.i.e.
dominated by Northern Muslims) across the country are expected to be
manifestly bias and pro Muslim voters especially those favoring or
casting their votes to the central ruling Party. Threats Against Foreign Observers & Western Democracies As Evidence Of Rigging Plans •Threats,
name calling and campaigns of calumny fiercely launched by the Federal
Government including the central ruling party’s National Chairman and
Gov Nasiru el-Rufai of Kaduna State are clear evidence of desperation
and rigging plans of the present cabalistic Federal Government. The
central Government of Nigeria needs not panic or become jittery of the
western democracies and foreign observers if it is poised at conducting
transparent and free and credible polls. In one of the unguarded
utterances of the Federal Government, it was reported thus “if it means
rigging the presidential poll, why not after all Obasanjo and his PDP
rigged for sixteen years”. This is a height of executive recklessness
and brigandage. •Western democracies and international observers
are hereby called upon not to shy away or be cowed by the Federal
Government’s threats and campaigns of calumny. Their attention is also
drawn to the fears expressed above so as to pressure the central
Government and its “dependent” INEC to scuttle them or take serious
diplomatic actions against their vicarious and direct perpetrators. •As
a matter of fact, the western democracies and international observers
must stand their ground and specifically focus their attention in
Northern Nigeria. The US should specifically monitor the Presidential
Poll via its satellite and other legitimate channels. Election
observers, especially international observers and members of the general
population in Nigeria must make good use of camera phones and other
hidden cameras or sophisticated electronic gadgets so as to forensically
cover the polls and those deployed to handle them. •On Election
Day, Nigerians from all walks of life particularly those that have
attained 18yrs and above and issued with Permanent Voters Cards are
called upon to come out en masse and locate their nearby polling booths
and cast their votes to candidates of their conscientious choices. •Those
without PVCs except those in essential duties such as Red Cross
officials, medical staff and paramilitaries have no business loitering
about in the streets or along the roads. They should stay off voting
areas or streets or roads until voting is over. It is a breach of
Nigeria and international human rights and democracy laws to force or
intimidate or stop fellow citizens from voting. If caught, the Coalition
will have no sympathy for the caught or such law breakers and will
insist the law must take its full course provided it is in
commensuration with the offense caught committed. Jointly Signed For: Southeast Based Coalition of Human Rights & Democracy Organizations (SBCHROs) · Int’l Society for Civil Liberties & the Rule of Law (Emeka Umeagbalasi & Chinwe Umeche, Esquire) · CLO, Southeast Zone (Comrade Aloysius Emeka Attah) · CLO, Anambra State Branch (Comrade Vincent Ezekwueme & Comrade Chidi Mbah) · Forum for Promotion of National Ethos & Values (FPNEV: Prince Emeka Onyesoh) · Igbo Ekunie Initiative (Tochukwu Ezeoke, UK) · Int’l Solidarity for Peace & Human Rights Initiative (ISPHRI: Jerry Chidozie Chukwuokoro, PhD) · Foundation for Environmental Rights, Advocacy & Dev (FENRAD: Comrade Nnana Nelson Nwafor) · Society for Economic Rights & Social Justice (SERSj: Andy Ndukwe) · Human Rights Organization of Nigeria (HRON: Comrade Samuel Njoku · Center for Human Rights & Peace Advocacy (CHRPA: Comrade Peter Onyegiri) · Southeast Good Governance Forum (SEGGF: Alex Olisa) · Society Watch & Advocacy Project (of Intersociety)-WASP (Comrade Chike Umeosonwunne) · Initiative for Ideal Dev & Emancipatory Leadership in Nigeria (IDEAL: Comrade Nwokocha Anozie Innocent) · Igbo National Council (INC) (Comrade Chilos A.C. Godsent & Comrade Zulu Ofoelue) · Anambra Human Rights Forum (ANHRF: Obianuju Igboeli, Esquire) · Voice of the Voiceless Int’l (VOVI) (Violet Umenwofor-Ezekwike, Esquire) · Easy Life Initiative for Rural Youths (ELIRY: Comrade Emeku Uche) · Community Empowerment Network (Rep) · Southeast Movement against Transactional Politics & Profligacy (Comrade Bright Obidike) · Prof Justice Chidi (Academia) -Neighborhood Environmental Watch Foundation (Okezie Kelechi)