By Ibrahim Kado Gombe – President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has promised to improve on the gains recorded in the Agriculture sector to enhance socio-economic  development of the country,if voted for a second term. Buhari made the pledge when he paid a courtesy visit on the Emir of
Gombe, Alhaji Abubakar Shehu-Abubakar, on Saturday, as part of his
campaign tour of the state. He said government would continue to provide fertilizer and other
farm inputs to farmers at subsidised rate, to enhance their
productivity. Buhari said he visited the state to thank the people for the support
given to him, and also solicit for more of such support for a second
term. He said that as part of efforts to enhance economic activities,
government had commenced the exploration of gas  and oil in some parts
of the state, adding that when completed, the state and the country
stood to benefit from the project. According to him, government is committed and hopeful that success
will be recorded as similar resources have been discovered in
neighbouring Chad and Niger Republics. He also said that his administration had worked hard to ensure the
security of lives and property, just as it had not relented in the fight
against corruption. He said that by now, people of the North-east had seen clearly, the
difference between the previous and the present administration. In his response, the Emir,  Shehu-Abubakar, commended the effort of
the president, especially in the areas of development of agriculture ,
youth empowerment and job creation. According to him, this has impacted positively on the life of people
in the state, especially during the 2018 farming season, thereby
reducing importation of food items into the country. “We are aware of all the effort that you are making for the
development of North-east geopolitical zone, Gombe being in the centre,”
he said. The Emir  also thanked the president over the oil exploration activities   in Bauchi and Gombe states. He then called on all stakeholders to work towards enshrining a
sustainable democratic culture  by ensuring that the forthcoming
elections were hitch-free. (NAN)