There is an aphorism: “birds of the same feather flock together”; which
could rightly be applied to the relationship that exists between
President Muhammadu Buhari and his chief of staff, Mallam Abba
Kyari.  President Buhari known for his integrity, humility, strict and
principled lifestyle with a zero tolerance for corruption and undying
patriotism for Nigeria, has indeed found a reliable confidant in Abba
Kyari. Anyone, who has followed the President closely, knows that men
and women of questionable character and dubious antecedents never find
favour in his sight. To borrow from the words of Abraham Lincoln, Abba
Kyari like PMB “walks slowly but never walks backward”. In the
trying days of this administration, when the President was away on
medical grounds for several months, Abba Kyari’s leadership qualities
were brought to the fore as he was able to hold the house together. The
kind of divisions and power tussle that is often characteristic of the
Presidential Villa during the absence of the Commander-in-Chief was
never experienced because of the maturity displayed by the chief of
staff. That his support made the Acting President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo
to also give a good account of himself and the administration is stating
the obvious. The cohesion and trust that has been built between the
President and his deputy is a direct offshoot of the enabling
environment created by the chief of staff in the State House. Due
to his studiousness and near perfect mien, Abba Kyari received a horde
of accolades from a cross section of Nigerians when he was appointed to
the position of Chief of Staff to the President on 27 August 2015. The
most shocking of these commendations came from one of the most vitriolic
critics of Buhari and his administration, former minister of aviation
in the Obasanjo administration, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode. Although
Fani-Kayode has never seen anything positive about President Buhari, he
at least acknowledged the fact that Abba Kyari is a good man and his
appointment well-thought out and fitting.To the consternation of
many, Fani-Kayode described Kyari as a good man. Congratulating the
chief of staff on the appointment via a statement on his Facebook wall
and a tweet from his official Twitter handle, the ex-spokesperson for
the Goodluck Jonathan Presidential Campaign said: “Congrats to my friend
and brother Abba Kyari, who has been appointed as Chief of Staff to
President Buhari. Abba and I were at Cambridge University together in
the mid-80s. On his return to Nigeria, he worked in my father’s law
firm, Fani-Kayode and Sowemimo for many years, running the Kaduna
office. I can assure you that he is one of the brightest minds in this
country. He is a profoundly good man and I wish him well in his new
assignment.” If such glowing words could be said about the chief of
staff by an unrepentant opponent of the administration, it means Abba
Kyari certainly has something to prove. Being a well-educated and
experienced bureaucrat and politician, Abba Kyari’s advice and work
ethics has been of immense significance to the success story of
President Buhari. It is common knowledge that the president had promised
Nigerians three basic things during his campaign: to tackle insecurity;
to promote economic diversification; and to confront corruption head
on. Working very closely with President Buhari in the last three years
and eight months, Abba Kyari has provided the needed collaboration and
assistance that has propelled this administration to attain
unprecedented feats in the annals of the nation’s history. It is true
that insurgency and other forms of insecurity may still exist around the
country, but the fact remains that no administration has since 1999
tackled insecurity more than President Buhari. It is a fact that by May
2015, over 17 local government areas in Borno, Yobe and Adamawa states
in the North East region were comfortably in the hands of Boko Haram
insurgents. Today, the reverse is the case as Boko Haram has been
degraded and all territories hitherto occupied by them effectively
recovered by our gallant troops with the residents resettled on their
lands. Of course, militancy, kidnapping and armed robbery have been
dealt a deadly blow. In short, Boko Haram has incurred more losses in
the last three years than what they suffered between 2010 and 2015. The
welfare of our military has received a better attention in the past
three and half years than any other time in the history of the
nation.  Today, monies meant for the purchase of arms and welfare of the
military are no longer diverted to private pockets and shared to
cronies. This administration has made history as the first ever
to give bailout funds to states that had backlog of salaries, allowances
and pensions of public servants. Perhaps for the lack of accountability
and transparency in some of the states, no governor is supposed to owe
any workers salary in Nigeria. No wonder, President Buhari had openly
told the electorate not to vote for any governor that is unable to pay
salaries. Just recently, the government approved a N30,000 minimum wage
for workers.In the area of employment and job creation, this
administration has made significant impact. The introduction of N-power
and trader-moni have in no small measure created jobs for millions of
jobless school leavers and boosted small scale enterprises amongst women
and young populace. Agriculture has been given a major boost with the
provision of loans and other incentives. It is gratifying to note that
Nigeria is now exporting rice and other crops such as yams and no longer
a dumping ground for substandard rice from across the globe. Although
the economy had slumped into a recession at the early stage of this
administration, through discipline and careful planning, the nation is
out of the recession and the economy has picked up strongly. The
Buhari administration has also rolled out an economic reform programmes
anchored on the development of infrastructure, which has been the bane
of underdevelopment but has been identified as a major vehicle through
which any sustainable economic development can be achieved. Hence, the
government has placed premium placed on the three economically key
sectors of power, works and housing to provide basic infrastructure and
service needed to accelerate social and economic developments in the
country. With just three years and eight months in the saddle, President
Buhari is once more given Nigerians a semblance of what our road
network should be. There is a remarkable improvement going by
the record of on-going and completed highway and bridge projects that
cut across the 36 states and the FCT in the last three years. it is on
record that abandoned projects like the Second Niger Bridge,
Lagos-Ibadan Expressway and the Bodo-Bonny Bridge have been brought back
to life. Sections of Ilorin-Jebba, Sokoto to Jega, Sokoto-Ilela have
been completed, while progress of works continues nationwide from Jada
to Mayo Belwa, Enugu to Port Harcourt, Lagos to Otta, Ikorodu to
Shagamu, Benin to Okene, Lokoja to Abuja, Kano to Maiduguri, Abuja –
Kaduna, Kano to mention a few.According to the minister power, works
and housing, Babatunde Fashola, ‘‘the intervention on roads, as made
clear by the ‘infrastructure’ Minister, does not stop on interstate
highways. It has also entered 14 federal universities where unattended
internal roads are now receiving attention. The universities include:
University of Nigeria, Nsukka; Federal University Oye, Ekiti; University
of Benin; Federal University, Lafia; Fed University, Otuoke Bayelsa;
Bayero University Kano; Federal University of Technology Owerri (FUTO);
University of Maiduguri; Federal University, Lokoja; Federal Polytechnic
Bauchi; Federal University, Gashua; Kaduna Polytechnic; Federal College
of Education Katsina; and University College Ibadan’’. The chief
of staff is the man behind the scene working tirelessly and
conscientiously for the success of the Buhari administration. As Nigeria
hopes to transmute into the Next Level with President Buhari on
February 16, it is only pertinent that due recognition should be given
to the chief handler of the president, who has done so well since august
2015. Of course, the president being the driver of the Change Agenda
deserves commendation and ultimate reward; while the chief staff being
the head conductor also needs encouragement to continue to remain
focused despite myriad distractions; and assist President Muhammadu
Buhari to land triumphantly and gallantry to the Next Level. •Hon. Ugwu is the Executive Director of CREI and writes from Enugu.