Isaiah Eka Uyo – The Commissioner of Police in Akwa Ibom, Mr Bashir Makama, has warned politicians and their supporters against all forms of electoral malpractice in forthcoming general elections. Makama gave the warning while addressing heads of security agencies,
officials of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and
political parties’ leadership in the state on Tuesday, in Uyo. He cautioned them to desist from vote-buying, selling or canvassing for votes at the polling units. He warned that anyone caught indulging in such acts would be arrested by the Police. The commissioner added that the command had done everything possible to ensure free, fair and credible elections on Saturday. He urged political party leaders to promote credible elections by
controlling their supporters for peace before, during and after the
elections. “As a command, we have done everything possible to ensure that peace
reigns. Politics should be without bitterness and rancour; it is not a
do-or-die affair. “You must therefore behave yourselves at polling units because we will not tolerate any irresponsible behaviour. “Any strategy you are adopting to win election, ensure that you adopt
a transparent strategy; canvassing for, buying or selling of votes is
against electoral acts. Anybody seen doing this will be arrested. “Don’t even come out with insignia, banners or anything that
constitute a violation of the electoral act; you are advised because
when you are caught, I will arrest you. “Anything that negates the Electoral Act will not be condoned.
Politics is charaterised by hooliganism; we will not tolerate this. “The police is ready and my colleagues in other security agencies are
ready to give a credible, free and fair election come Saturday. “We will provide safety to INEC staff, the elaborate and the politicians alike,” Makama said. He warned against wearing of political party insignia, blaring of
siren and carrying phones within the polling units, stressing that such
acts would not be tolerated. Makama, who resumed duties on Monday, said that the police and other
security agencies were ready to provide a level-playing ground to all
political parties in the state. On his part, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in the state,
Mr Mike Igini, said the commission was ready to conduct free, fair and
credible elections on Saturday. Igini urged politicians to play by the rules, saying “Democracy and
legitimate elections are what is required to supply legitimacy to the
government. “Every time we are going for election, it is as if we are going to war. This is sad. “Elections should be a day when the sovereignty of the people should
be reaffirmed. Election brings about accountability and processes of
human endeavour. “You cannot talk about democracy without the rule of law. “The election we are going to conduct here will be free, fair and
acceptable to the people. The process is what we are interested in. “Election rigging is tantamount to no election. To exercise power it
should be legitimately optimised. We must give meaning and purpose to
the ballot,” he said. Igini said that the political elite, who were the highest
beneficiaries of electoral process and the judiciary, were the greatest
threat to democracy in the country. (NAN)