By Bushrah Yusuf-Badmus Ilorin – Beneficiaries of President Muhammadu Buhari’s various intervention programmes in Kwara state have declared their support for his re-election and all APC’s candidates in the state. They declared their support for the president on Friday at a rally
organised by ‘Speak up Nigeria’, a pro-Buhari civic group that is
harvesting people’s opinion of the administration. Speaking one after the other, the beneficiaries said the Buhari
administration had brought succour to millions of down trodden masses in
the rural areas. Alhaja Risikat Agbeyangi, a pepper seller and beneficiary of Trader
Moni at the popular Ipata market, hailed Buhari for bringing governance
directly to the poor. “We thank the president for his support to us; it was timely and met
our personal and business needs, some of us expanded our business with
it. “We have resolved to declare our support for Buhari and his supporters in Kwara state against all odds,” she added. Kabir Balogun, a beneficiary of N-Power Health, said the programme
was a great boost for public health at the grassroots as masses now have
direct access to tips on basic health issues. A beneficiary of the N-Teach and resident of Magaji Ngeri of Ilorin
West, Jimba Yahya, thanked Buhari for the employment opportunity. “I want to advice Nigerian youths to vote Buhari and Pastor Yemi
Osinbajo who saw us as productive elements in the nation and not just
instruments of political violence. “I am grateful for the employment opportunity they gave me and my fellow Nigerian Youths,” he said. Omowunmi Akinsefunmi, a resident of Basin road in Ilorin, said the
N-Power scheme offered her internship opportunity to train as a
technician. “I appeal to Nigerian youths to see voting Buhari again as
opportunity to a better Nigeria as we cannot afford going back to the
bad old days,” she added. Malam Aliyu Dansokoto, a pepper seller also in Ipata Market and
beneficiary of Market Moni also commended the president for bringing
succour to his life. “The N10,000 given to us by the President Buhari-led Federal
Government aided our business and we found things easy during his
tenure. “I am appealing to Nigerians to vote Buhari again for a better Nigeria,” he said. Kwara State public relations spokesman of N-Power beneficiaries,
Salman Habeeb Olesin, said the Buhari administration had brought succour
to millions of unemployed youths in the country. “President Buhari has employed over 500,000 youths through the N-Power programme. “I am a trained teacher, lying idle before Buhari came, but he gave
me the opportunity of practicing and making a living out of what I know
and have passion for, teaching. “I want PMB to continue beyond 2019,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that besides the 500,000
youths in the graduate N-Power scheme, no fewer than 50,000 others are
in the non-graduate component learning various skills