By Lucy Nwachukwu Abuja – The Federal Government of Nigeria has allocated a 5.12-hectare piece of land in Abuja to the African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) for the development of a centre of excellence for medical services. The bank‘s Head of Media, Mr Obi Emekekwue, in a statement on Friday,
in Abuja, said the centre would serve Nigeria and the west African
sub-region. Emekekue said: “The centre of excellence, the first by Afreximbank in
Nigeria, will be completed 24 months after a groundbreaking exercise
expected to take place in December. “It is being developed by Afreximbank, in collaboration with Kings
College Hospital (KCH), United Kingdom, which is serving as the
strategic partner.” He explained that the allocation of the land, which took place on
Jan. 29, would allow project development activities to proceed in order
to ensure the timely completion of the project. According to him, the centre will provide quality specialist
healthcare to improve Africans’ health and promote intra-African medical
tourism. He said it would also create employment and facilitate the
conservation of foreign exchange that would otherwise be utilised to
seek medical treatment outside Africa. “It will offer a full spectrum of medical services, including
diagnostics, clinical management, post care and onsite ambulatory
services in treating oncology (cancers). “It will help in the treatment of haematology (blood diseases,
including blood cancers, and sickle cell anaemia) and cardiology (heart)
diseases. “It will also provide prompt, life-saving detection and management of
chronic diseases to more than 50,000 Africans annually,” Emekekwue
said. According to him, the centre will also create about 500 direct jobs
and will be the basis for the emergence of a comprehensive medical park
with facilities to be managed by KCH. He said Afreximbank was supporting the development of world-class
health facilities in Africa in the context of its mandate to promote the
diversification of continent’s exports. The spokesman said the bank was doing this by meeting the growing
health care needs with a view to enhancing service exports, promoting
employment and conserving scarce foreign exchange. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Nigeria was selected in
February 2017 to host the centre, following a competitive bidding
process.