By Hajara Leman  Gombe – The Joint Health Sector Union (JOHESU) has urged the Federal Government to rotate the appointment of the country’s Health Ministers amongst health workers. Malam Idris Bello, JOHESU Chairman, Federal Teaching Hospital (FTH), Gombe chapter, made the call in an interview with newsmen on Wednesday in Gombe. Bello spoke shortly after the protest by the union to mark the end of the 3-day protest ordered by the national body of the union. NAN recalls that the nationwide protest commenced on Feb. 11, but FTH Gombe did not join until Wednesday due to the late receipt of the directive. Bello explained that the health sector was vast with professionals in diverse fields hence the need for rotation among the various cadres in the appointment of the ministers. “We want appointment of Health Ministers to be rotational between health workers not necessarily Medical Doctors who constitute only five per cent, while the Nurses and Midwives that constitute 95 per cent are sidelined,” he said. He noted that the current ministers of health were all medical doctors as well as the Minister for Labour, who is supposed to be a neutral person. “Because they have common interest as members of same profession, they often conspired against other health workers,’’ the chairman said. He further called on government to address JOHESU demands, adding that on Jan. 14 and 15, the National Executive of the union and the Assembly of Health Professionals Association (AHPA) had met in Abuja to appraise all the pending issues. He said all pending matters were deliberated upon and a 15-day ultimatum had been served the federal government to resolve the payment of the withheld April and May 2018 salaries. He added that an upward adjustment of Consolidated Health Salary Scale (CONHESS) and non-promotion of their members from CONHESS 14 to 15 should be addressed. Other demands were punitive measures against their colleagues at Federal Medical Centre, Owerri, and Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH) for exposing corrupt practices and other sundry matters. Reacting to the development, Dr Yaya Alkali, the Managing Director of the hospital, promised to channel the union grievances to the federal government to ensure that the JOHESU demands were resolved. (NAN)