By Okeoghene Akubuike/ Bukola Adewunmi Abuja – Parents and students in the FCT have commended the Federal Government and Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) for the suspension of the three-month strike. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the strike was
suspended on Thursday, Feb. 7, after a conciliatory meeting between ASUU
and the Federal Government. led by the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Nigige. NAN recalls that ASUU embarked on strike on Nov. 4, 2018 to press for
revitalisation of universities, payment of academic earned allowances,
establishment of Universities Pension Management Company, among others. Mrs Achonwa Mary, a parent whose child is in the University of Abuja ,
said she was happy the three months old strike had been suspended . Mary who is a civil servant, however, appealed to the Federal
Government to keep to their promise by meeting the demands of ASUU to
avoid further strike action. “Though I am happy that the strike has been suspended, I have to look
for money to send to my son to enable him go back to school. “Before the strike, I had settled him, including providing for his
upkeep, during the strike I had to spend extra money on him; my appeal
is for a permanent solution to end these strikes.’’ Mr Sunday Chigozie, a business man in Aco Estate, who has two wards
in Nasarawa State University, Keffi,  also expressed happiness that the
strike had been suspended . Chigozie said that the suspension of the strike was a relief for both parents and students. He said that he was particularly happy because many of the students who had been idle during the strike could return to school. “During the strike I had to engage my two children in my shop, so they do not become idle and engage in social vices. “I hope this country will not witness this kind of strike again because I believe this government will keep to its promise. ‘’ Mrs Grace Yussuf, a public servant, who also has two children in the
university, said she was happy the strike had been suspended, adding
that she wished it was called off and not suspended. Yussuf appealed to the Federal Government to keep to its promise so that the strike would not resume. “If the education system keeps being disrupted, it is telling on everyone, the parents, students and the whole nation.” ”I think government should prioritise its expenditure by giving priority to key sectors of the economy. “The world is watching, please this strike should not resurface;
government should  show commitment and seriousness to meeting the
demands even if it is gradual, so we can have a permanent solution to
these strikes.’’ Ola Alonge,  a 100 level Computer Science student of Nasarawa State
University, Keffi, said he was happy the strike had been suspended so he
could continue with his studies. “I am so happy that ASUU has suspended the strike because I just got admission after waiting for four years. “I pray they will not go on strike again; I appeal to the government
to please settle ASUU so that they can focus on teaching the students. Joceberd Taiwo, a 400 level Human Anatomy student of Federal
University of Technology, Akure, commended the Federal Government and
ASUU for reaching an agreement to suspend the strike “This means so much to us as students, we are tired of staying at home. “ The strike is not good for our education system, it is killing the
output we should get as a nation, these strikes do not encourage
students, it only discourages us. “Though I used the period to learn tailoring, which I have added to
my knowledge, the truth is that not everybody will learn skills,  some
might just `party’ or engage in various vices and this will have a
negative effect on them.’’