By Grace Alegba Lagos – To commemorate St. Valentine’s Day, Touch of Love and Lifting Hands Foundation, an NGO for welfare of elderly citizens, organised a party and distributed food items to over 1,000 widows and elderly citizens in Lagos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) correspondent who covered the event
at Ifako Ijaye in Lagos State, on Thursday reports that bags of rice,
cartons of noodles, salt, seasoning, flour, garri and other staple food
items were distributed. Also, cooked food and drinks were served to them amid sounds of loud music and dancing, as the elderly danced in groups and in circles making merry. Mrs Atinuke Owolabi, CEO/founder of the foundation, said that the
event was aimed at giving widows and elderly citizens a sense of
belonging, to eliminate loneliness, depression and other diseases
associated with old age. Owolabi explained that the foundation which began about three years
ago, ran a daily recreational and medical care for the elderly in a
two-bedroom facility dedicated to them in Lagos. According to her, some senior citizens usually come to the
foundation, which opens everyday till 7 p.m, to play games, interact and
have routine medical check up and drugs. She added that the NGO also carried out periodic medical outreaches,
where experts were brought in to support the elderly citizens with
laboratory tests, drugs, food and other recreational facilities, to
enhance their quality of live. “This Valentine’s Day event is just to put smiles on the faces of
these widows and the elderly, we want to show them they are part of the
society and they are also part of decision making in the country. “We want them to know that they are stakeholders in the Nigerian project, they have been dancing and jubilating. “Today is St. Valentine’s Day, we cannot allow them stay at home,
they are here exchanging love and gifts, warm embraces to prevent
loneliness and depression, they are cheerful. “I decided to celebrate with them, so that they see that touch of
love, we are going to dance and wine all day and they will go away with
several food items,’’ she said. Owolabi, a member of the Nigerian Society of Engineers, appealed to
Federal and state governments, to support and implement the Senior
Citizen’s law, which was recently passed. She said that the NGO had a database of over 800 registered widows
and senior citizens in Lagos and would open its Ekiti office soon. She said that over 1,000 widows and senior citizens were at the
Valentine’s Day party because all registered members and other
unregistered members drawn from the community and across the state were
in attendance. “Those who are 60 years and above fall into the group of those we
care for but our major focus are the widows, who are discriminated
against in the society,’’ she said. Pa Adeniyi Bankole, National Treasurer, Senior Citizens Association
of Nigeria, called on the Federal Government and state governments to
upgrade its care for the elderly in line with global practices. Bankole, who is also the Chairman, Fadama, Ifako Ijaiye/Ojokoro Local
Government, commended the philanthropic gesture of the foundation. “This is the second time we are holding this kind of programme here,
Atinuke is our daughter, who has demonstrated so much love for the
elderly and we have nothing to give her but to continue to pray for her
as she is taking care of the elderly and widows,’’ he said. An octogenarian, Mrs Olubunmi Olagunju, told NAN “We come here
(foundation’s office) at will to relax and play with our friends and the
managers of this foundation are very patient with us’’. Olagunju called on Federal and state governments to improve on the welfare of senior citizens and put them on monthly stipends. Also, Rachael Bello, a septuagenarian, thanked the foundation for its love for the elderly and widows. “We thank Atinuke because she has not allowed us to feel hungry or
lonely. We can come here to play games, meet our friends and at the same
time enjoy ourselves, I have been dancing since morning, this party is
good. “Valentine is for love and I remember my late husband today in joy,
God will surely show her and her children compassion, as she has shown
us compassion,’’ she said. (NAN)