By Chimezie Anaso Awka – The Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) says it has commenced inspection of vehicles deployed for movement of election materials in the Feb. 16 and March 2, general elections in Anambra. The state Sector Commander, Andrew Kumakpai, made the disclosure in Akwa at a news conference on Friday. Kumapayi said the command had asked the state INEC and major
transport operators, including the National Union of Road Transport
Workers, Road Transport Employers Association and other fleet owners to
turn in their vehicles assigned for election duties for inspection. He said the purpose was to ensure that all vehicles meant for the
movement of vehicles were in good condition to ensure seamless
distribution of election materials. The sector commander said the condition of the vehicle tyres,
lighting system, break, wiper and other essential variables would be
checked to ascertain their suitability or otherwise. He said that effective distribution of materials was crucial in the electoral process. Kumapayi added that the command had also concluded arrangements for
deployment of personnel and equipment for quick response to emergencies
during the electioneering periods. He said as part of Inter-agencies Consultative Committee on Election
Security, the FRSC was working in effective collaboration to ensure that
the transportation component of the election was optimal. “We are aware of the role we are expected to play in the coming general elections and we have commenced the process already. “The inspection of vehicles for election materials deployment has commenced and by next Wednesday, we would have concluded that. “So, we told the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to direct the vehicles they want to use to us for inspection. “Already, we have informed the stakeholders in the transport sector
sector like NURTW, NARTO, RTEAN and fleet owners of this development,”
he said. He also said the command would organise training for its personnel on their expected roles during the polls. (NAN) 