By Joan Nwagwu Abuja – Mr Ibrahim Magu, Chairman, Economic and Financial Crimes Committee, has decried the new tactics being used by looters of the nation’s commonwealth to escape the long arm of the law. Magu stated this in a solidarity
message at the 12 National Delegates’ Conference of the Nigeria Labour
Congress (NLC) on Tuesday in Abuja. The theme of the two-day National
Delegates’ Conference is: ‘‘Towards a Decade of Activism for the
Promotion of Labour Unity, National Rebirth and Development.’’ Magu, who was represented by Dr
Aminu Gusau, a Director in the commission, said that the more the
commission moved to address corruption, the more those involved devised
new strategies. ‘‘We have realised that the more we
spread our tentacles to catch and bring to book those who have corruptly
enriched themselves from the commonwealth, the more we are discovering
that the corrupt-minded folks are evolving new techniques,’’ he said. He said that the commission had put
in place several strategies that would be deployed in carrying out its
mandate to rid Nigeria of corruption. Magu disclosed that through various
investigations, the commission had unearthed the collusion of bank
officials and those of non-designated financial institutions, with
corrupt politicians in the country. He, however, noted that this had
brought about an increase in the instances of illicit financial flows
into and out of the country. He said, ‘‘invariably, one major
purpose why I am here is to further goad the NLC to cooperate with the
EFCC in the fight against corruption. ‘‘The task of fighting corruption is a collective responsibility that has been given to each and every one of us. ‘‘The NLC has been a longstanding partner of the EFCC. ‘‘You have partnered with us at
various events like anti-corruption walks, among other interactive fora,
strategically designed by the EFCC to strengthen partnership with
critical stakeholders to fight against corruption. ‘‘These collaborations with labour
and other civil society groups are hinged on the realisation that the
EFCC cannot single-handedly confront the monster that corruption has
become in our society. ‘‘It is a fact of life, that a
single finger cannot lift the load off the ground; such effort requires
the use of all the fingers of the two hands to achieve such an action. ‘‘However, with your support and the
goodwill of all Nigerians, our painstaking and broad-based approach
will definitely yield results.’’ He added that he was in Ghana as
part of the commission’s concerted effort at beaming high-tension
searchlight beyond the borders of Nigeria. ‘‘What we discovered is no doubt staggering and mind-boggling,’’ he said. He revealed that corrupt politicians
had widened the circles of their corrupt activities by investing their
loots in other African countries, this was in order to sell them and
deploy ways of repatriating them to Nigeria, even in the buildup to the
election. Magu further said, ‘‘but, by and by,
we are also stepping up our game to combat and nip in the bud, new
tactics being deployed to fraudulently divert and misappropriate funds
meant for the welfare and good of all Nigerians. ‘‘We have signed a Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) with the Economic and Organised Crime Office, in
Ghana, the Ghana Financial Intelligence Centre and the Ghana police
service to ensure that we keep track of such illicit inflow and outflow
of suspicious funds. ‘‘Our MoU with the United Arab
Emirates is also very much in effect as we have been able to trace
several assets illegally kept there. ‘‘This is in addition to several
other strategies that we have deployed in carrying out our mandate of
ridding Nigeria of corruption. We remain unrelenting, undaunted and
unbowed. ‘‘We have also engaged with
operators of financial institutions, as well as non-financial
institutions and we charge them to see themselves as partners in the
fight for the common good of all Nigerians,’’ he said. The chairman said that the
commission was monitoring the movements of cash in the system, and awake
to its responsibility of ensuring that the provisions of the Electoral
Act, 2010 are strictly adhered to. ‘‘This was especially as it relates to election funding, and the now worrisome incidents of vote buying,’’ he said. The EFCC boss, while speaking on the
theme of the conference, said the dream of ensuring a national re-birth
and development of the Nigerian economy and the country’s image in the
international community was not a day’s affair. ‘‘We have a collective
responsibility in uniting against corruption; with unity of purpose, we
shall attain in our lifetime, the future that we desire for the
generation yet unborn,’’ he said. (NAN)