Cyprian Ekwensi’s novel: ‘Survive the Peace’ was premised, among others,
on the disrupted family ties and social relations that emerged in
Igboland, after the Nigerian Civil War. Those of us, who witnessed the
war, albeit as kids, will confirm that things actually went awry:
Brothers turned against brothers; most time, as they squabbled over
resources that were, indeed, very scarce. Unfortunately, while in some
cases, the enmity caused by the situation has petered out, in others,
erstwhile harmonious relationships have been destroyed forever. By
some surprising amnesia, sadly, today, some of those who witnessed that
low era, in Igboland, seem not to have properly digested the lessons of
the period hence the stage is set for a repeat of that history. This
time around, it is the countdown to the 2019 elections, a period that
is, again, pregnant with unfathomable forebodings, as Igbo brothers
squabble over the best strategy to confront what many regard, as an
existential challenge. From the current fireworks, ignited by the
recent endorsement of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate
of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, by the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, over and
above the incumbent President Alhaji Muhammadu Buhari of the All Peoples
Congress Party, APC, it is obvious that, no matter the outcome of the
elections, things will no longer be the same again. While the pro-Atiku
groups do not see anything wrong with the Ohanaeze position, those in
the pro-Buhari camp disagree vehemently with and, in fact, reject the
endorsement. Those who want to dismiss the disagreement with a wave of
the hand should be concerned that Barrister Uche Okwukwu, the
secretary-general of Ohanaeze, has endorsed President Muhammadu Buhari,
obviously conveying the lack of consensus on such a serious matter. For
those who do not know, Okwukwu is an unapologetic pro-Igbo Ikwerre man
from Rivers State; he is one whose Igbo DNA has not undergone any
mutation, even if you prefixed his first name “Uche” with an “R”, to
read Ruche! It is against this background that the reported suspension
of Okwukwu, last Friday, should be viewed as not just a dangerous
escalation of a worrisome crisis but a questionable strategy for
resolving an impasse that could have been averted, had Ohanaeze Ndigbo
not been dragged into the murky waters of partisan politics. Here
again, history appears to be repeating itself, as this looks like a
throwback to the situation just before the 1979 elections when the
leadership of Ohanaeze, at the time, endorsed the Shagari-Ekwueme
ticket. Predictably, Ohanaeze went comatose after that incident, only to
be revived in 1983. Let us hope that the body is not being railroaded
into another state of suspended animation! It is interesting to note
that the great ZIK of Africa, Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, was on the ballot as
the presidential candidate of the defunct Nigerian People’s Party, NPP,
the same year Ohanaeze endorsed Shagari. This time around, by some
poetic coincidence, Buhari was at Onitsha, Anambra State, commissioning
the Zik Mausoleum, a project that had been abandoned for over 20 years,
just as the Nnia Nwodo-led Ohanaeze leadership was publicly endorsing
Atiku Abubakar. History!!! Passions are understandably very high
at the moment with each group posturing sanctimoniously, as the moral
beacon of the Igbo society. This is particularly the case with those who
support the Ohanaeze President, the erudite Dr. John Nnia Nwodo who, in
turn, sees himself, not without justification, as the repository of the
sovereign socio-cultural authority, of the Igbo nation. Curiously, that
is the source of the problem: his authority is socio-cultural, not
political. The Ohanaeze leadership was never intended to usurp the role,
of political parties, to openly canvass for votes, in a purely partisan
fashion. Those who take this line of argument have a strong point, for
several reasons. The first reason is that Ohanaeze is supposed to
act as FATHER, to every Igbo person, no matter where the person lives
or what interest group, the person belongs. That is why people of Igbo
extraction, in the South-South, who share common geo-political and
socio-economic affinity with other ethnic groups, also belong to
Ohanaeze. However, given their dual identity, their political interests
may not always converge with those of the core Igbo heartland. It is
precisely for reasons such as this that, playing the role of FATHER
demands a high level of dispassion, on the part of Ohanaeze leadership.
Put bluntly, neutrality confers on the body, the moral authority to
legitimately expect those in dispute to enthusiastically submit to the
organisation’s adjudication. But when the body takes an overtly partisan
posture as it has done, it subverts its own authority. The
second reason is that partisan politics exposes the actors to all sorts
of indignities, given that politicians are not known to be too
economical with disparaging language. To be in politics is akin to
entering the boxing ring, for a fight: Once in, you cannot hide; you
throw and take punches and your opponent may not respect your height or
status. Could that be what is happening right now between the Ohanaeze
President, Dr. Nnia Nwodo and Governor Willy Obiano of Anambra State? It
is precisely for this reason that traditional institutions and
socio-cultural organisations like Ohanaeze are advised to steer clear of
partisan politics. At any rate, if one may ask, what makes it mandatory
for Ohanaeze to make its support public? Are there no corridors for
conveying the position of the group, in a manner that it still retains
the confidence of all, without exposing some of its members to public
ridicule or even danger? We must face the fact: that is precisely
what Ohanaeze has achieved. It has given the impression, which is
wrong, that those who support other candidates, especially President
Buhari, are less patriotic than others; that they do not have the
interest of Igboland at heart. Yet we know that that is debatable. For
crying out loud, it is preposterous for anybody to claim that every
person, of South-East extraction, in the APC, is an Igbo hater.
Furthermore, it will be dubious in the extreme, to suggest, let alone
insist, that Igboland got to its present sorry state, just in the past
four years. Let’s face it: the poor infrastructure, absence of
strategic national assets such as refineries, iron and steel complexes
(in spite of the abundance of coal in the zone!), etc did not just
start, four years ago. By some coincidence, many high-ranking members of
the Imeobi, the apex decision making organ of Ohanaeze Ndigbo have held
sway in Nigeria’s political scene as governors, ministers, special
advisers, chief execs of strategic federal institutions or top party
men, even as infrastructure in the south east deteriorated and sunk into
complete disrepair. If one may ask, did the miserable state of the
Enugu-Port Harcourt Expressway just happen? It will be interesting to
tell our people why that stretch of road has lingered in that condition
since the restoration of democracy in 1999. What about the Sam Mbakwe
International Cargo Airport in Owerri? Do we need a national referendum
or United Nations supervised plebiscite, to provide the infrastructure
required to achieve its designated status? Why have successive
administrations before now not effectively tackled the indefensible
underutilization of sea ports in the eastern corridor of the country?
Did President Buhari or the APC stop any previous administration, from
doing the needful? I think the time has come for us, Ndigbo, to be more
honest with ourselves. Another strong case that should
discourage Ohanaeze, from overt political exposure, is the fact that, by
its structure and role, it interfaces with similar bodies in other
parts of Nigeria. Granted that other socio-cultural organisations
necessarily have their political preferences, these are astutely masked
by emphasising matters that affect regional interests and programmes,
rather than endorsing individuals or political parties. One possible
exception to this rule is the Afenifere which publicly supports any
candidate or party. But they hedge their bets through what, some have
argued, are public stunts, designed to obfuscate their overall strategy.
While I do not necessarily agree with that position, the reality is
that, head or tail, the Yoruba will always find a way of not losing out
completely; it doesn’t matter if they scream to the top of their voices
that the contrary is the case! I think they have mastered the art of not
stacking all their (political) eggs in one basket! Are there lessons
for the Igbo in this? Political wisdom will dictate that
institutions, like Ohanaeze, retain the credibility to act, on behalf of
their groups, no matter the outcome of the elections. There are moments
when people think that elections have been wrapped up, that the public
mood, as expressed on social media or even dictated by opinion polls or
public debates, have settled the outcome of elections. That is where
false confidence can be disastrous. Let us hope that Ohanaeze does not
become a victim of such over-confidence. Should Buhari/APC win, and
going by the demographics and the peculiar primordial determinants of
electoral behaviour in Nigeria, nothing so far suggests that the party
will lose, it is hoped that Ohanaeze will retain the moral fiber to
present itself as a credible voice of the Igbo, thereafter. Besides,
it needs to be stated that one way to avert a reenactment of the
immediate post-civil war era calamity, where the Igbo found surviving
the peace much more difficult than surviving the war, is to commence
immediate fence-mending steps, to repair the damage already caused.
Ohanaeze Ndigbo can borrow a leaf from President Buhari who, while
campaigning in Owerri, advised voters in Imo State to vote for
candidates of their choice, across party and not ethnic or religious
lines. •Emma Agu, CEO of GAVINTA & ASSOCIATE LTD, a
media consultancy, is a fellow of both the Nigerian Union of Journalists
(NUJ) and the Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE).