Like every politician, Dave Umahi, Governor of Ebonyi State, means
different things to different persons. Ask some of his opponents, they
will tell you that he is a wily, ruthless operator who spares to time
dealing with opponents. But to his admirers, he is God-sent; a very
effective leader, under whose watch, Ebonyi State is witnessing
unprecedented people-centred development. To understand the Dave
Umahi phenomenon, cognizance should be taken of the fact that, in
addition to being Governor of Ebonyi State, he is also chairman of the
South East Governors Forum, a position he is holding, at a very
challenging period in the history of the country. Never, since the end
of the civil war, has the South East zone been so volatile, caused by
the agitation of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB), an
organisation that, for the greater part, has demanded for the
restructuring of Nigeria, based on a United Nations supervised
referendum. Naturally, this has pitted the group against the Federal
Government: remember the mantra; Nigeria’s sovereignty is not
negotiable! Besides, in spite of the effort of the previous
administration in which Dave Umahi served as deputy governor, Ebonyi
State, like many others, was still in dire need of faster
infrastructural development, people empowerment and a pragmatic
engagement with its diverse neighbours, to the north and east. It was
under that condition that Umahi assumed duties, as governor, after a
bitterly fought election in which his predecessor vigorously opposed his
emergence. Now that Governor Umahi is seeking re-election, my view
may not be important, as only the electorate, in Ebonyi State, now has
the power to return a verdict, on his performance. Whether he succeeds
or not is far beyond this article or the writer. However, no
matter the outcome of the 2019 governorship election in Ebonyi State,
history will remember Umahi for his ability to insulate Ebonyi State and
the South East, from total war, by dousing the tension that was
generated by the IPOB crisis. Not many people would have astutely
navigated the landmines that stuck out, as some hawks canvassed a
confrontational posture with the Federal Government. Given the emotions
of the time, the hawks forgot that, like the President, every governor
had sworn to uphold the sovereign status of Nigeria. Umahi, with the
other governors were, also, acutely aware that beyond the rhetoric of
bravado by the young idealists in IPOB, an open confrontation with the
military would throw the South-East into a cauldron whose end, no one
could predict. Umahi and his colleagues saw what the young idealists,
without prejudice to their indignation, could not see: that apart from
human attrition, another war in the South East would destroy the zone
economically and erode the post-civil war gains. It certainly took
great courage to run against the popular sentiment. Umahi was maligned,
threatened and despised. Yet, he stood his ground: he was focused and
firm, forthright and determined. Umahi’s action reflected a clear
understanding that, there are moments when a leader will have to defy
popular sentiments and stick to his convictions, based on the
information at his disposal. That was leadership at its best. After all,
an Igbo saying has it that what the ‘diochi’ (palm wine tapper) sees
from the tree top, the tallest man, standing on a chair, will not see
it! As Governor, he had information which the common man, did not have. Actually,
what has emerged is that Umahi’s style defies conventional political
behaviour in Nigeria, especially, the South East. He has no qualms
breaking the rules, insofar as he is convinced that the end will justify
his position. In no area is this more starkly pronounced than his cosy
relationship with President Muhammadu Buhari. Those from his South East
zone, who see his behaviour as inexcusable, as not “conforming to the
rule”, have history on their side. In the Second Republic Nigeria,
Governor Sam Mbakwe of Imo State and his Anambra State counterpart,
Chief Jim Nwobodo, both of the defunct Nigerian People’s Party (NPP),
maintained a highly tempestuous and adversarial relationship with
President Shehu Shagari (of the National Party of Nigeria, NPN). Here
is Umahi, of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), openly fraternizing
with President Buhari, of the All Progressives Congress (APC), a man who
many, from Umahi’s zone, do not see as a friend. That is yet another
rule broken. Umahi is right, yet again. He appreciates that, as
President of Nigeria, Buhari has the entire country as his constituency
and Ebonyi is part of that constituency. For another, Umahi has refused
to play the stereotypical ethnic politics that is largely responsible
for Nigeria’s underdevelopment; of course, the ethnic politics is only a
façade that plays up in furtherance of the selfish political interests
of the elite, who see the country as a fiefdom for their families. On
balance, it is difficult for anyone to prove that Ebonyi has suffered,
by way of Umahi’s style. If anything, Ebonyi has recorded accelerated
and sustained improvement in infrastructure and people empowerment
through massive investment in roads and agriculture, among other
achievements. Today, Abakaliki, the state capital, wears a new look.
Umahi’s background as an engineer is rubbing off on infrastructure
delivery. A tourist who last visited Abakaliki four years ago, will be
forgiven if the person, on seeing the flyover and streetlights of today,
mistakes the state capital for Abuja. What is significant is that,
unlike some governors who begin and end provision of infrastructure, in
the state capital, Umahi has pursued an aggressive policy of road
development in the rural areas where, as at the last count, a minimum of
15-kilometer concrete roads was done in each of the thirteen local
governments. The road development is not isolated; rather, it is
intertwined with the agric development policy of the government. It is
to the governor’s credit that, from the inception of his administration,
he identified agriculture as the fulcrum on which his laudable
people-empowerment policy would revolve. The loan scheme programme for
civil servants and the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Anchor Borrowers
Programme (ABP) have literally left Ebonyi State awash with money for
agriculture. Aside from the several awards he has received, no
one has captured the essence of Umahi’s agric revolution as graphically
as Audu Ogbeh, Nigeria’s minister of agriculture did, during a visit to
Ebonyi State, in 2017. I will like to reproduce excerpts from Ogbeh’s
impressions, courtesy of Emma Anya, chief press secretary to Governor
Umahi. Addressing Umahi, Ogbeh said: “Governor, I hear you banned the
sale of foreign rice in your state. God bless you for it. I also hear
you invited young men to come back from Lagos and work here, God bless
you also for it. They will be happier here in this state than living
under the bridge or substandard accommodation in Lagos, Abuja or
elsewhere.”To Ogbeh’s accolades, I wish to make the following
remarks. First, every government, like that of Ebonyi State, must have a
clear and honest vision. Second, every governor must exhibit
unquestionable political direction and will. Third, diversification
should be anchored on comparative advantage, not the copy cat which,
more often than not, lacks transparency. For Ebonyi, agro allied
industries is the way to go, through the state is not ignoring its rich
deposits of solid minerals Fourth, it is a fallacy that Nigeria cannot
feed itself. It is an even bigger fallacy to insist that protectionism,
such as the rice ban, will always be counter-productive. Like the Ebonyi
State Government, the Federal Government deserves commendation, in the
same way that the Godwin Emefiele-led Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN
deserves unqualified accolades for its single-minded prosecution of the
Anchor Borrowers Programme. For the thousands of school leavers who pace
all over urban cities, in search of non-existent jobs, the agric
revolution of the Umahi Administration has, for the first time, afforded
them the difference between mere existence and having a life.
Paradoxically, it is for the reasons of the rules he has broken that,
contrary to the wishes of his opponents, Umahi, could simply leap to a
landslide victory, in the 2019 governorship elections.