Awka – The Anambra Police Command, on Tuesday, said it had arrested 14 suspects for various electoral offences committed during the Feb. 23 Presidential and National Assembly elections in the state. Mr Rabiu Ladodo, the Commissioner of Police in-charge of the 2019
general elections in Anambra, disclosed this in Awka during a media
briefing. Ladodo explained that the offences allegedly committed by the
suspects included ballot box snatching, disruption of elections,
malicious damage and thuggery. He said that Police recovered the following exhibits;
two vehicles, two motorcycle and three ballot boxes snatched from Okpoko
area. ‘‘Electoral materials such as ballot papers destroyed at Obosi and
Ojoto Collation Centres,  two knives and dry leaves suspected to be
Cannabis Sativa were equally recovered,” he said. The commissioner gave assurance that suspects would be charged to court as soon as investigations are concluded. He advised all aggrieved parties who lost in the elections not to
take laws into their own hands, but explore legal means in tackling
their problems. He said that the command would continue to ensure peace and security,
warning  that any individual or group found to disrupt the relative
peace in the state  would be dealt with. Ladodo who used the meeting to review the atmosphere during the
elections commended all  Anambra people for the peaceful conduct during
the exercise. ‘‘Despite some isolated cases recorded in some parts of the state
where the command responded promptly and prevented breakdown of law and
order, the election was generally peaceful without recording any loss of
lives or injury. ‘‘This goes to confirm that Anambra State is not only a peaceful
state in the whole Federation but also the most secured in terms of
safety and security,” he said. (NAN) By Ramatu Garba Kano - The Police in Kano State on Tuesday, said it arrested… By NAN The Katsina State Police Command said on Thursday it arrested a 17-year-old boy… By NAN The Katsina State Police Command said on Thursday it arrested a 17-year-old boy…