By Zainab Oyekan Jos – The Management of Plateau United FC of Jos says its midweek match against Kada City Stars of Kaduna at the New Jos Stadium on Feb. 20, will not be played behind closed doors. The club, presently occupying the
8th spot on the Group B league table with 11 points from 9 matches, will
host Kada City Stars, after serving their three-match banishment in
Ilorin and Lafia. Albert Dakup, Media Officer of the
club, in a statement on Monday, debunked rumours that the match against
Kada City Stars would be played behind closed doors. He said that such insinuations were
not only false but a calculated attempt to deprive the team of
much-needed home support to galvanise it to victory. “What the League Management Company
(LMC) directed the club to do is simply to ensure that unauthorised
persons should not be seen inside the perimeter fencing before, during
and after its matches. “That only the medical team of the
two clubs and security agents are allowed within the tracks and outside
the perimeter fence,’’ Dakup said. Dakup, however, advised the club’s
supporters to abide by the order as anyone found violating the new
directive would be dealt with by security personnel who have been
briefed about the new order. He said that the management of the
club, in collaboration with the Plateau Football Association, was using
this medium to appeal to the general public, especially soccer fans, to
take note of the new directive. “It would be recalled that Plateau
United was banished from the new Jos stadium after hoodlums masquerading
as fans of the club attacked the centre referee, Sam Agba, after its
Nigeria Professional Football League Week One fixture against Ifeanyi
Uba,’’ he said. Dakup said that the development
prompted the League Management Company, organisers of the NPFL, to
banish the team to Ilorin before returning them to Lafia, on appeal. “Already, two persons have been
arrested and charged to court in connection with the attack, while the
police is on the trail of the remaining hoodlums mentioned in the
matter,’’ Dakup said.