…Promises To Mobilize Support for PDP   

By Chibuike Nwabuko     

Abuja (Sundiata
Post) – Yar’Adua political think-tank, PDM has endorsed former Vice
President Atiku Abubakar as its presidential candidate in the 2019 election,
describing him as a democrat and a unifier.   

PDM also promised
to mobilize support for the People’s Democratic Party to ensure his victory at
the polls.   

The group’s
endorsement was contained in a seven-point statement issued at the end its one
day meeting held at the Yar’Adua Centre, on Thursday in Abuja.   

The satatement
signed by its Chairman and representatives of the six geo-ploitical  Zones
each reads in full:   

“After extensive
consultations with members of our group, we therefore make the following
proclamations:   

That the tension that
has been generated by the 2019 elections is getting to a disturbing proportion
and we call on all actors in the electoral process to ensure that peace ensues
before, during and after the elections.   

We call on the
security operatives to be impartial and to focus on their main mandate of
preserving and protecting the lives and property of every Nigeria and
foreigners alike.   

That politicians
should refrain from making insidious statements and anyone caught going against
this should be duly prosecuted.   

That after a
careful observation of the socio-economic situation in the country, we have
come to the inevitable conclusion of endorsing the candidate of the People’s
Democratic Party (PDP), former Vice President of Nigeria, Atiku Abubakar as our
consensus candidate.   

That we demand of
the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) complies strictly with the
provisions of the relevant laws in its conduct of the upcoming series of
elections.   

That election
monitor groups and other watchdog agencies in the conduct of the election must
conduct themselves above board and ensure a hitch-free election in February 16
and on March 2, 2019.   

That Voters should
as well conduct themselves in orderly manner by casting their votes and be
willing to stand to protect their votes.   

We believe that the
2019 election is a landmark opportunity for Nigeria to take a decision for the
growth of the nation’s economy and, consequently, the general prosperity of all
Nigerians. 

To this end
therefore, we will continue to mobilize support for the PDP candidate, Atiku
Abubakar and we as well urge all Nigerians to look at the condition of the
country today in relation to the economy, unemployment, foreign affairs and
other sectors and vote overwhelmingly for Atiku to get Nigeria working again.
  

Signed for and on
behalf of the Yar’Adua Political Family (PDM)   

Hon. Dubem
Onyia                         
              
(South East) 
Chief Bode
Ajewole                                   
   (South West) 
Chief Ejiofor
Onyia                        
              
(South South)
Dr Bala Ahmed
Tafida                   
              
(North Central)
Alhaji Kabir
Bawa                          
              
(North East) 
Barr. Fatima
Abba                           
             
(North West) 
Dapo
Sarumi                                      
            (Chairman)