By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Group under the auspices of Middle Belt Forum (MBF) has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to resign as President of Nigeria having blatantly breached the constitution he swore to uphold and oath of Office he took in the way and manner he unilaterally suspended Chief Judge of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen. The group which gave a detailed analysis of how similar
issued have been handle and resolved without hitches by the National Judicial
Commission at different times, stressed that the President cannot be trusted to
be fair and just in his function as Commander in Chief as his conduct is
capable of setting Nigeria in the path of anarchy and avoidable civil war. In a statement by the group titles, “The position of the Middle
Belt on the suspension of the CJN” signed by its president, Dr. Pogu Bitrus,
the group said: Recall that the Middle Belt Forum (MBF) had in a press
statement made in conjunction with its partners from the South South (PANDEF),
the South East (Ohanaeze Ndigbo) and the South West (Afenifere) deprecated the
unconstitutional and illegal purported removal of the Chief Justice of Nigeria
(CJN) His Lordship, Honourable Justice Walter Samuel Nkanu Onoghen, GCON and
called for the immediate reversal of the suspension. This was on Friday, 25th
January, 2019. Several days after we made the call, President Muhammadu
Buhari, GCFR has refused, failed or neglected to reverse himself. The peoples
of the Middle Belt have sought legal advice and reviewed the circumstances of
the purported suspension viz-a-viz the Constitution of Nigeria and the law. Our
findings are as follows: 1. The Motion Ex-parte upon which the purported suspension
was predicated was filed on the 10th of January, 2019. When the matter came up
on the 22nd day of January, 2019 for the arraignment of the CJN, the CJN
through his lawyers challenged the jurisdiction of the Tribunal while the
Prosecution sought to move the Motion to direct the CJN to step aside and after
the stepping aside, direct the President to swear in the next most senior
Justice of the Supreme Court to fill the vacuum. The Tribunal after listening
to both sides ruled that it would take the objection to its jurisdiction first
and thereafter, take the Motion of the Prosecution, if necessary. The Tribunal
then adjourned to the 28th day of January, 2019 for the hearing of the two motions. 2. On Friday, 25th January, 2019, the President claimed that
he had been served with an ex-parte order directing him to suspend the CJN and
swear- in the most senior Justice of the Supreme Court as Acting Chief Justice
of Nigeria. The order the President claimed to have relied on in
suspending the Chief Justice of Nigeria is as follows: 3. That the Defendant/Respondent shall step aside as the
Chief Justice of Nigeria and Chairman, National Judicial Council over
allegations of contravening the provisions of the Code of Conduct and Tribunal
Act Cap C15 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004 pending the determination of
the Motion on Notice dated 10th January, 2019 That the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria shall
take all necessary measures to swear-in the most senior Justice of the Supreme
Court of Nigeria as Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria and Chairman of the
National Judicial Council in order to prevent a vacuum in the Judicial Arm of
Government pending the determination of the Motion on Notice. 4.  Order 1 was
directed at the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Honourable Justice W.S.N. Onoghen,
GCON to act by stepping aside from his office. His compliance with that order
would have created a vacuum. Order 2 directed at the president was predicated
upon compliance with order 1. Until that order was complied with, order 2 would
be inchoate and the president could not act in compliance with the order as
there would be no vacuum as was the case in the instant case. 5. The Tribunal is vested with the inherent powers to
enforce compliance with its own orders as part of the dignity of the Tribunal.
The refusal of the Chief Justice of Nigeria to comply with the order
immediately conferred on the Tribunal the powers to enforce the order which
should have been activated in accordance with the procedure laid out by the
law. 6. The President rather than allowing the due process of the
law, chose to overthrow the Constitution and the law by unilaterally suspending
the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Honourable Justice Walter Samuel Nkanu Onoghen,
GCON from Cross River State and the only Southerner in the last 32 years to
head that  arm of Government of the
Federation; and immediately swore-in Justice Tanko Mohammed, CON from Bauchi
State in the North thereby ensuring that the three Arms of Government are
headed by Northerners. 7. The Order above clearly did not empower the president to
suspend the Chief Justice of Nigeria nor could the order have done so as that
power lies squarely in the purview of the National Judicial Council. The
position of the law today is as pronounced by the Court of Appeal in the
Nganjiwa case. 8. The action
of the Executive Arm in using the Code of Conduct Tribunal to harass,
intimidate and embarrass the Chief Justice of Nigeria is insensitive, deceitful
and calculated to deepen the division in Nigeria along religious and regional
lines and stands condemned by the peoples of the Middle Belt and all people of
good conscience across Nigeria. That action was in crass violation of the Code
of Conduct Bureau and Tribunal Act which prohibits reference to the Code
of Conduct Tribunal persons who have admitted in writing any omission(s) in
their Asset Declaration. For the avoidance of doubt, Section 3 of the Act
provides: 3.
Functions of the Bureau The functions of the
Bureau shall be to- (a) receive assets
declarations by public officers in accordance with the provisions of this Act; (b) examine the
assets declarations and ensure that they comply with the requirements of this
Act and of any law for the time being in force; (c) take and retain
custody of such assets declarations; and (d) receive
complaints about non-compliance with or breach of this Act and where the Bureau
considers it necessary to do so, refer such complaints to the Code of Conduct
Tribunal established by section 20 of this Act in accordance with the
provisions of sections 20 to 25 of this Act: Provided that where
the person concerned makes a written admission of such breach or
non-compliance, no reference to the Tribunal shall be necessary. 9. Charging the Chief Justice of Nigeria was wicked and
deceitful and capable of igniting a breakdown of law and order or even civil
war. The peoples of the Middle Belt, in any war between the North and the
South, would bear the brunt of the crisis and will resist anyone who
deliberately desires to set the nation on fire. 10.  The National
Judicial Council (NJC) had in different cases reprimanded   judicial officers who acted in the manner
Justice Tanko Mohammed acted by unconstitutionally presenting themselves to be
sworn in where they should not have done so: a.            Under
Justice Mariam Alooma-Muktar as Chairman of the National Judicial Council,
Justice Peter Agumagu of the Rivers state judiciary was suspended indefinitely
and eventually compulsorily retired for accepting to be sworn-in as Acting
Chief Judge by Governor Rotimi Amaechi without the recommendation of the NJC. b.            Justice
Theresa Uzokwe of Abia state judiciary was suspended as Chief Judge and Justice
Obisike Orji was sworn in to act in her place by Governor Okezie Ikpeazu. The National Judicial Council with
Justice Tanko Mohammed in attendance, reversed the action as unconstitutional
and suspended Justice Obisike Orji for presenting himself to be sworn- in as
Acting Chief Judge without reference to the NJC. 11.          On the
basis of the above, we the peoples of the 14 (Fourteen) States of the Middle
Belt hereby declare as follows: 1.            We the
peoples of the Middle Belt region, as true Nigerians, believe in the
Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, therefore, any person or group
of persons who breach the Constitution or act in such a manner that will
jeopardize the corporate existence of Nigeria and precipitate a humanitarian
crisis of international dimension is an enemy of the Middle Belt and indeed of
the Nigeria people. 2.            That we cannot trust the President of
the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR to be fair
and just in carrying out his functions as the President and Commander in Chief
of the Armed Forces of Nigeria. His conduct is capable of setting this country
on the path of anarchy and avoidable civil war. 3.            We call on the President, having
blatantly breached the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria which he
swore to uphold and his Oath of Office to immediately resign. In the event of
his refusal to do so, we call on all the peoples of the Middle Belt and all our
allies to reject him at the polls. 4.           We call on the National Judicial
Council (NJC) to immediately remove Justice Tanko Mohammed from office for
presenting himself to be sworn-in unconstitutionally as the Acting Chief
Justice of Nigeria when he was never recommended by the NJC. 5.            We call
on the international community to be proactive and prevent a descent into
international humanitarian crises that may be occasioned by the disdain and
contempt of the President for Constitutionalism and the Rule of Law. Thank you. God bless the peoples of the Middle Belt! God bless the Federal Republic of Nigeria! Dr. Pogu Bitrus President