By Francis Onyeukwu Awka – Police have confirmed the release of the abducted member of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) deployed to Indiokolo community in Orumba area of Anambra as electoral ad hoc staff. Also, the state coordinator of NYSC, Mr Aremu Kehinde, told News
Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the female corps had regained her freedom
more than five hours after her abduction. Kehinde said the corps member was in good health condition after her
release by her abductors, who are yet to be arrested by security
personnel. A statement signed by SP Haruna Mohammed, the Command’s Public
Relations Officer (PPRO) and made available to journalists on Saturday
in Awka stated that the corps member serving as a presiding Officer was
picked up early Saturday morning. Mohammed explained that the police arrested seven persons in connection with vote buying and disruption of electoral process. The PPRO, who quoted CP Rabiu Ladodo as leader of the security team
that monitored the exercise at Anambra on Aerial and Vehicular patrols,
described the election as generally peaceful. He noted that in spite of the peaceful and impressive turnout, there were isolated cases of insecurity. “There are few isolated incidents recorded such as ballot box
snatching at Onuma imeobi Square ward Six unit 4 Onitsha, vote buying,
disruption of election in some polling units. “We also recorded alleged abduction of the presiding officer, who is
also a youth corps member in Indiokolo unit, Orumba North LGA of Anambra
South Senatorial zone,’’ he said. Mohammed equally stated that the command equally arrested two armed Police mobile personnel on illegal duty. He said that all the cases are under investigations at the State CIID, Awka. He hinted that the police recovered one mini shuttle bus, two
motorcycle, N110, 920 two hand bags containing dry leaves suspected to
be cannbias and, two knives from the suspects. Mohammed urged the public to report any incident or suspected
persons, especially on what will lead to the arrest of the criminals
that abducted a corps member through the Police emergency numbers
availed to the public for prompt response. (NAN).