By Florence Onuegbu Lagos – Facebook has partnered Dubawa, a Nigerian Online platform, to intensify the fight against fake information in the country. Adaora Ikenze, Facebook’s Head of Public Policy for West and Central
Africa said on Monday that the partnership came following the recent
launch of Facebook’s Third-Party Fact-Checking programme. The Third-Party programme is to help assess the accuracy of news and reduce the spread of misinformation. Dubawa is an online platform which provides factual information to
its readers, so they can make informed decisions, whether political,
economic, security or mainstream decisions, based on the truth. Ikenze said that Facebook’s fact-checking programme, which also
improved the quality of news people found on its platform, relied on
feedback from the Facebook community, as one of many signals it used to
raise potentially-false stories to fact-checkers for review. She said that local articles would be fact-checked alongside the verification of photos and videos. According to her, if one of Facebook’s fact-checking partners
identifies a story as false, Facebook will show it lower in News Feed,
significantly reducing its distribution. “This new partnership with Dubawa further highlights our commitment
in tackling misinformation and false news across Nigeria and builds on
the already important work that AFP and Africa Check have begun. “We know that Third-Party Fact-Checking alone is not the solution. It
is one of many initiatives and programmes we continue to invest in
across the country to help to improve the quality of information people
see on Facebook, ‘’ Ikenze said. “With this new partnership, we aim to build on the work we already started in Nigeria. “Nigeria is important to us and we are committed to taking our
responsibility seriously in tackling the spread of false news,” she said
in a statement. Commenting on the partnership, Ebele Oputa, Project Officer and
Editor, Dubawa, said that the danger of fake news, misinformation,
disinformation, in whatever form, was ever more real and vivid in
today’s world. “In recent years, we have seen democracies all over the world, being threatened by the spread of false news. “As a fact-checking organisation in Nigeria, we try as much as we can
to fight this via our articles, tweets and trainings but we also
understand the role that technology plays in getting the right
information to the public. “As such, our partnership with Facebook is very pivotal in ensuring
that factual information gets to the people who earnestly needs it to
make right decisions,” Oputa said.