By Auwalu Birnin Kudu Daura – Alhaji Abdulmanaf Muhammad, a Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), on Wednesday called on supporters of the party nationwide to vote massively in the rescheduled Presidential and National Assembly elections on Feb. 23. Muhammad, who is the Northwest APC
Zonal Organising Secretary, made the call in Daura when he addressed
thousands of party supporters during a strategic stakeholders’ meeting. He said the party was saddened and
disappointed over the sudden postponement of the elections formerly
scheduled to hold between Feb. 16 and March 2. The APC scribe, however, added that the postponement was not deliberate. He said that the Independent
National Electoral Commission (INEC) had proffered cogent and convincing
reasons as to why the polls were shifted to Feb. 23 and March 9. “We are aware that logistic problems are some of the reasons for the postponement. “We urge the electorate, especially
supporters of the ruling party to ignore the rumour and unfounded
allegations being spread by the opposition as to why the elections were
shifted. “We are committed to a free, fair and credible elections but the system must be sanitised, ” Muhammad said. The APC chieftain noted that the
Buhari Administration had successfully secured the Northeast and
liberated 17 local government areas, which had been under the control of
Boko-Haram insurgents in Borno. Muhammad noted that the quantum of
development projects being executed by the Buhari administration in the
last three years were unprecedented. He said in spite of the current
dwindling oil revenue, the APC-led administration was dutifully
repositioning Nigeria, contrary to what previous administrations had
done. “The present administration has
demonstrated strong political will, commitment and determination through
its efforts in transformation of Agriculture. “It banned importation of foreign
rice and encouraged mass rice production programmes, which culminated in
establishment of several rice milling factories. “Also agricultural programmes,
especially the much popularised Anchor Borrowers’ Scheme, has within its
three years of inception created thousands of millionaires, created job
opportunities and boosted food security. “These show the need for Nigerians
to re-elect President Buhari and all those seeking for elective offices
under the platform of the APC for consolidation and fulfilment of the
campaign promises made by the party,’’ he said. Muhammad assured that execution
of giant projects like the Mambila power project, revitalisation of the
Ajaokuta Steel Company, oil exploration and many more would continue. He said that the current
administration had since completed and inaugurated the Baro Inland Water
Port and some rail lines to indicate its commitment toward a better
Nigeria. Muhammad also lauded the efforts of
the Buhari administration for instiling attitude of probity,
accountability and transparency through the introduction of the Treasury
Single Account (TSA). “We have minimised the instances of government agencies dubiously operating multiple bank accounts. “The era of sharing Nigeria’s money like bonanza is over as you have to merit what you earn. “The initiatives of the Buhari
administration in providing bailout funds and the Paris Club refunds to
state governors are clear demonstration of sincerity of purpose and
determination to free the nation from wastages  of the past,’’ he said. Muhammad stressed that salaries and other entitlements of civil servants were being paid regularly. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)
reports that the meeting was attended by APC supporters across 12 local
governments in Katsina North Senatorial District. The 12 local governments comprise:
Daura, Sandamu, Maiadua, Baure, Zango, Kusada, Mani, Mashi, Dutsi,
Kankiya, Ingawa and Bindawa.