By Temitope Ponle Abuja – The Heads of the international observation missions in Nigeria have urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to strictly adhere to the new dates it scheduled for the general elections. The appeal was made in a joint statement signed by the heads of missions and the United Nations (UN) on Saturday in Abuja. The statement was made available by Sarah Fradgley, Press and Public
Outreach Officer, European Union Election Observation Mission. The heads of the various missions also called on Nigerians to
continue to remain calm and supportive of the electoral process as INEC
worked to implement its new timeline. “We, the Heads of the international election observation missions and
the United Nations present in Nigeria, have taken note of the decision
of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to postpone the
2019 general elections due to logistical and operational challenges. “We urge INEC to use this time to finalise all preparations and ensure that the new election dates are strictly adhered to.” They encouraged INEC to provide regular updates and information to
the public on its preparations in the coming days and weeks to enhance
confidence and trust in the process. They also expressed continued solidarity with Nigerians in their
desire for credible and peaceful elections, adding that they would
continue to closely observe preparations across the country. The heads of missions are Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, former President of
Liberia leading ECOWAS, and African Union led by Hailemariam Desalegn,
former Prime Minister of Ethiopia. Other missions are the Commonwealth, headed by Dr Jakaya Kikwete,
former President of Tanzania; Electoral Institute for Sustainable
Democracy in Africa, led by Rupiah Banda, former President of Zambia. The Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, Amb. Boubakar Adamou,
Director of African Political Affairs and the UN Special Representative
of the Secretary-General for West Africa and the Sahel, Dr Mohamed Ibn
Chambas were also represented. (NAN)