By Yunus Yusuf Lagos – Eko Electricity Distribution Company Plc (EKEDC), on Tuesday said the ongoing Meter Assets Provider Programme (MAP) would put an end to metering challenges faced by customers in the country. The Chief Executive Officer, Mr Adeoye Fadeyibi, made the disclosure
at the company’s town hall meeting with customers of Orile District in
Lagos. Fadeyibi, represented by the company’s Chief Finance Officer, Mr
Joseph Ezenwa, said the essence of the meeting was to deliberate with
customers on effective service delivery. He said that the MAP programme, expected to commence officially in
the country next week, was introduced to ensure electricity customers
only paid for what they actually consumed. Fadeyibi said that the programme provided for the supply,
installation and maintenance of end-user meters by meter providers
approved by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC). According to him, customers’ responses at the meeting were encouraging, as they spoke with one voice. He said: “If we give them electricity and the bills come along, they will be willing to pay the bills. “Now, we are both committed and this is fantastic. We, in EKEDC will ensure stable supply once energy from the gird improves. “So, by the time we come for another town hall meeting, you will tell
us that supply has improved, and we would have fulfilled our promise.’’ Fadeyibi also informed the customers that discos could only
distribute supply allocated to them from generating companies, while
urging them to continually expose energy thieves around them. This, he noted, would lead to reduction in what they called “crazy bill’’. Fadeyibi said that bills were shared to consumers by the company
based on what the meters from their different communities recorded for
the month. “What you call crazy bill is not crazy, according us in Eko Disco; we
have an approved methodology for billing consumers who do not have
functional meters. “It is what we get from your transformer monthly that is being shared among the consumers. “So, if your neighbours are tapping power daily or you see welding
machines nearby and you think it is our responsibility to hold them, it
will reflect in your bills. “Expose your neighbours who are bypassing meters or anybody that is
tapping supply from our electric poles now. This is for the benefit of
both parties,” he said. Fadeyibi assured the residents that the company’s prepaid meter
roll-out programme would soon be extended to them when the MAP
kick-starts. The CEO, therefore, urged them to be patient with the company. According to him, MAP is expected to fast-track the closure of the
metering gap, encourage the development of independent and competitive
meter services in the sector. “Under the new MAP regulation, customer classes shall be amended to
ensure that customers only pay for meters when it is physically
installed in their premises. The EKEDC boss warned the public against building structures, and
engaging in social and economic activities under the High and Low
Tension lines within its network. He said that the management observed that such acts were being done
with impunity, irrespective of the dangers associated with such
violations. “EKEDC has expended a lot of resources on enlightening the public on the dangers of the infringement. “I implore members of the public to refrain from converting the
underneath of power lines to markets, playground, motor parks or places
of worship.” Against this backdrop, Fadeyibi urged residents to always observe the
mandatory distance in relation to the power lines in order to protect
themselves from unforeseen danger. On equipment maintenance, the EKEDC boss said huge amount of money
had been spent by the company to maintain equipment under its network. A customer, Mr Ugo Uzo, commended the company for its prompt response
to complaints and improvement in electricity supply to the communities. Uzo, however, pleaded with the management to continue with the
effective service delivery which the communities had been enjoying for a
while. He urged the company to expedite action on the ongoing MAP programme,
while pledging total support in ensuring vandals are brought to book.
(NAN)