By Kabir Muhammad Polls Abuja, – The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has called on all stakeholders and other FCT residents to ensure peaceful coexistence before, during and after the Presidential and National Assembly elections. The FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello, made the appeal on Sunday in
Abuja, while addressing stakeholders on the imperative and gains of
peaceful elections. The minister noted that the administration had put necessary mechanism in place to guarantee peaceful elections. Bello, who was represented by the FCTA Permanent Secretary, Mr
Chinyeaka Ohaa, assured stakeholders that with the collaboration of
security agencies and the electorate, the election would be
violent-free. He appealed to all stakeholders to always be on the alert and report
any suspicious activity to the relevant security agencies for necessary
action, even as they join the on-going effort towards ensuring peaceful
elections. While calling on residents to ensure they collect their Permanent
Voter Cards (PVCs) and properly safeguard them, the minister advised
them to use their PVCs wisely to elect candidates of their choice. He enjoined the residents to guard their minds from all fake news by
cross check emerging issues in the media, especially social media. According to him, as one people in one city, the pursuit of peace
remained a collective effort that must be keyed into during and after
the elections. Bello also warned politicians against taking laws into their hands in
a bid to win the various positions they were contesting for. The minister said to ensure advancement of peaceful coexistence, FCTA
had intensified sensitization of the public and the provision of
adequate security before and during the polls. He therefore tasked relevant authorities to ensure that rural areas
within the nation’s capital were adequately manned by security
operatives to avoid electoral violence. One of the stakeholders and FCT Chairperson of National Council of
Women Society (NCWS), Mrs Nancy Bulus, said that security agencies must
give more attention to the hinterlands. “As the remote places are the main flash points of electoral violence
in the territory, the residents are ready to participate in the
elections, but needed to be assured of adequate safety and security,’’
she added. The Chairman NUJ, FCT Council, Mr Emmanuel Ogbeche, who commended the
FCTA for the initiative, reiterated commitment of members of the union
to peaceful, credible and fair elections through timely, accurate and
unbiased reportage. Ogbeche however warned journalists against unethical conduct before,
during and after the elections, as doing so could adversely affect the
society. The Acting Director, FCTA Department of Information and
Communications, Mrs Stella Ojeme, expressed optimism that the FCT would
be peaceful, because the territory had always been peaceful in the
previous elections. Ojeme noted that the FCT as a symbol of Nigeria’s unity and oneness belonged to all Nigerians. “We do not want to be running helter and skelter back to our states.
Let’s join hands together and ensure peace continues to reign in the
FCT,’’ she urged.