By Ijeoma Olorunfemi Abuja – An Information Communication Technology (ICT) company, Coven Works, says it is collaborating with Amazon to equip 400 youths in West Africa with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and data science skills for better jobs. The Programme Director of the company, Mr Dunsin Fatuase, said this
on Sunday in a statement he signed in Abuja, noting that Coven Works
educates millennials living in marginalised communities with in-demand
skills and connects them with high paying jobs. He said that the training, which would begin on Thursday, Feb. 14,
would be through Amazon’s Web Service (AWS) Educate, a global initiative
of the company to provide students and educators the resources needed
to accelerate cloud-related learning. Fatuase explained that cloud computing, the practice of using a
network of remote servers hosted on internet to manage and process data
and AI, were recently the most sort-for skills on Linkedln. He further said that Gartner, a world leading research and advisory
company, had predicted that over 70 per cent of organisations globally
would require AI to assist employees’ productivity by 2021. He added that AI is the ability of a computer programme or a machine
to think and learn and also a field of study which tries to make
computers “smart”. The programme director said that the company had trained 700 junior
data scientists and AI engineers in the previous year and was
consolidating on that, hence the training of the 400 youths this year. He noted that “Coven Works is collaborating with the AWS Educate
programme from Amazon Web Services Inc. to launch an AI and data science
boot-camp for 400 West African students based in Nigeria and beyond. “This will enable us to bring the most in-demand skill sets to the next generation of African builders and developers. “We are building tomorrow’s workforce by empowering young people from
developing countries with in-demand software engineering skills and
matching them with high paying jobs.” According to Fatuase, the World Economic Forum (WEF) report on
“Future of Work” ranks AI and data science high among skills needed for
tomorrow’s jobs. Fatuase said “these youths are from conflict regions in developing countries and are largely marginalised. “Working with the AWS Educate programme is a strategic move to
improve the capacity of our AI engineers and add them to a global
workforce”. He added that Coven Works students would branch out to learn more on
AWS Educate after completing the six weeks pre-requisite in-class
boot-camp. After the pre-requisite classes, Fatuase said, the trainees would
select from 11 cloud career pathways, complete the AWS Educate
curriculum, while Coven Works would work with them to set up job
interviews. He stressed that the company would ensure continued focus in
upskilling youths in disadvantaged regions, provide cutting edge
learning in data science and AI for Africa’s working professionals, as
well as build tomorrow’s workforce. According to him, the programme teaches resilience and global citizenship. He added that the programme would be available on www.covenworks.com. Fatuase also quoted Mr Ken Eisner, the Senior Manager, AWS Educate,
Amazon Web Services Inc., as saying “there is high demand to build
skills around AI. “As we travel around the world, ministers of education and workforce
development keep pointing to the growing demand for cloud skills and the
grand opportunity that we face. “Through this collaboration with Coven Works, we are excited to
provide the next generation of African builders and developers with the
skills, hands-on learning, and pathways into the cloud and AI
community.”