By Away Kuje Wamba(Nasarawa State) – Mr Labaran Maku, governorship candidate of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Nasarawa state, has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to ensure that the forthcoming election is free, fair and credible. Maku, a former Minister of Information made the call on Tuesday while
addressing electorate at Gitta ward of Wamba Local Government Area
(LGA) of the state. He advised INEC to be impartial, neutral and fair to candidates of
all political parties during the Feb. 16 and March 2 election. He said if INEC remain impartial and fair to all political parties, it would go along way in ensuring peaceful poll. “I pray that this time around INEC will declare us winners because I
know we are going to win. We won in 2015 but the referee did not blow a
goal for us, but this time we advice that they declare the real winners
of the election,” he advised Maku also told his teeming supporters that he joined the governorship
race in order to bring peace, security, and ensure an improved welfare
for residents across the state. He urged electorate in the area to vote for APGA at all levels,
adding that only the party would bring the needed change in the state. “In the interest of peace, unity, security, employment, youths and
women empowerment, I appeal to you to vote for me and other APGA
candidates at all levels in the election. “I will positively change the condition of civil servants, farmers,pensioners among other categories of people in the state. “I will end poverty, hunger and will make live more meaningful for the people. “I will rescue the state from it challenges.I will be the voice of
the voiceless and we will bring the needed change across the state if
elected governor,” Maku said. Maku also promised to initiate good economic policies and other
programmes that would have direct bearing on the lives of the people of
the state. The News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) reports that Maku and his entourage
also took their campaign to Chessu, Arum Kado among other communities in
the locality. (NAN)