By Olanrewaju Akojede Lagos – As part of the activities marking the 2019 World Radio Day, the Lagos State Council of Radio Television, Theatre and Arts Workers’ Union of Nigeria (RATTAWU), has called for peace and tolerance in the coming general election. The Chairman of RATTAWU Lagos State Council, Mr Dare Durosimi, made
the call in a statement on Wednesday to mark the 2019 World Radio Day
with the theme ‘Dialogue Tolerance and Peace’. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that The United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) declared Feb.
13 as the World Radio Day. It was declared in order to improve international cooperation among
radio broadcasters. It is also an opportunity to draw attention to the
unique value of radio. The World Radio Day seeks to encourage the decision makers to create
and provide access to information through radio, and was first
celebrated in 2012 following the declaration by the UNESCO General
Conference. Durosinmi said that the Lagos RATTAWU, which comprises members of
both state and private-owned broadcast stations in Nigeria, was using
the 2019 celebration to call for peace and tolerance during the coming
general elections in Nigeria. “We therefore commend the level of preparedness of Independent
National Electoral Commission and the Nigeria Police Force for the
conduct of the general election so as to ensure free, fair and credible
election. “The union is concerned about the safety of voters and particularly
its members who will be involved in the coverage of the general
elections. “The union is of the opinion that the level of the security put in
place to safeguard voters and media will go a long way to give
credibility to the elections,’’ he said. Durosimi said that the union was concerned by reported attacks on its
members during previous elections, thereby calling for measures to
safeguard repeated occurrence. “The union is particularly concerned by the attacks on media workers
during previous elections and therefore urges the security agencies to
secure the media personnel on duty during the elections. “The media workers are also advised to be safety conscious in performing their duties,’’ he said.