By Muhammad Nasir Bello Sokoto – Gov. Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State has appealed to United States Government to intervene in the prevention  of alleged harassment of electorate in Saturday’s governorship and state assembly elections. Tambuwal made the appeal on Thursday when he received the US Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr. Stuart Symington, in Sokoto. He told Symington that the just-concluded  Presidential and National
Assembly Elections witnessed harassment of leaders and loyalists of the
Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). According to him,  many PDP members were hounded and arrested by security agents on the election day. “Our appeal is to ensure the electorate in whatever political parties are not intimidated or terrorised. ” Because our people were intimidated to the extent of failing to
discharge their civic duties in the remaining elections, scheduled for
March 9. “As such, I want appeal to the US Envoy to call on the Nigerian
government to allow the will of the people be granted during the
forthcoming Governorship and State House of Assembly elections. “The opposition has engaged in post-election violence, with attacks
on citizens and razing many properties and houses within and outside the
metropolis in the state, in a show of terror against perceived
opponents and non-partisan members of the public.” he said. He thanked the envoy for the visit, describing such as important for the peace and development of democracy in the state. Earlier, Symington said that he was in Sokoto to encourage more
peaceful atmosphere through out the electioneering period and beyond. “There is no any development  that can come without peace, so I
appeal on all stakeholders and the good people of Sokoto to ensure
peaceful polls,” he said. (NAN) By SundiataPOST, Abuja  Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa on Thursday said that his administration was determined… By SundiataPOST, Abuja Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, has… Idowu Gabriel Ado-Ekiti - The Ekiti State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has…