By Aderogba George Abuja – Citizens Advocacy for Social and Economic Rights (CASER), a CSO, has cautioned the two leading political parties, APC and PDP to stop dishing out statements that tend to intimidate INEC commissioners. Mr Frank Tietie, the Executive Director of CASER, who is also a human
rights lawyer, gave the caution at a news conference on Wednesday in
Abuja. According to Tietie, the caution is necessary following the
allegations made by the APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole
that some INEC commissioners are working for the opposition party, PDP. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that the APC National
Chairman had on Monday Feb. 18 during the party’s caucus meeting, made
an allegation that INEC commissioners in states such as Akwa Ibom and
Rivers were working in collaboration with the main opposition party. Meanwhile, the Executive Director of CASER described the INEC
commissioner in Akwa Ibom state, Mr Mike Igini as an upright man who had
maintained integrity for decades. “Mike Igini is one of the best and humble representatives of Nigeria
Civil Society leadership and the legal profession in terms of
steadfastness of character.’’ He said that the INEC commissioner had proven his immunity against
the filthy lucre of unscrupulous politicians and in the eyes of most
Nigerians. “The commissioner epitomises integrity and forthrightness of INEC and
has served in various states in different administrations as a Resident
Electoral Commissioner. “He is a pride to the NGO/CSO community and the legal profession in
Nigeria. He is an exemplary activist that has highly inspired many
Nigerians into pure activism without any agenda but for truth and in the
interest of Nigerian people. “In as much as CASER is nonpartisan; it has a responsibility to
positively affirm at all times that there is hope for Nigeria because of
active presence and commitment of patriotic and competent Nigerians
like Mike Igini. “Only the guilty, wicked, evil and unscrupulous politicians who hate
Nigeria and its people will dare for cheap political gains cast
aspersions on the integrity of the institutional and highly
inspirational Mike Igini,” tietie said. The Executive Director said that the commissioner’s reputations had
been unassailable in the discharge of his duty, and called on the
leaders of the two political parties to guide against intimidating
utterances. The CSO also alleged that it was because the parties might not have
their way to write election results that they were calling for the
change of the Akwa Ibom REC.