By Femi Ogunshola Abuja – Mr Kayode Ajulo, a Human Rights Lawyer, has criticised a section of Afenifere, led by Pa Ayo Adebanjo for endorsing Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the Peoples Democratic Party candidate in the Feb. 16 presidential poll. Ajulo made the criticism while reacting to Atiku’s endorsement by five socio-cultural groups including Afenifere. The other groups that came together on Sunday in Abuja to endorse
Atiku are Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF), Middle Belt Forum (MBF),
Northern Elders Forum and Ohaneze Ndi Igbo. He told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in an interview that the
view of Afenifere faction that endorsed Atiku did not represent that the
genuine view of the group. According to him, the absence of Pa Reuben Fasoranti, the Afenifere leader at the forum, suggested that it was a charade. “My worry is some Afenifere coming to endorse Atiku; some Afenifere
also came out in Ibadan on Jan. 29 to endorse President Buhari and Vice
President Yemi Osinbajo. “I know Afenifere has been polarised, but why is it that it is
Adebanjo that will be running around to endorse a candidate for
Afenifere. “I am a Yoruba man and I am a member of Afenifere; Pa Fasoranti is a known leader of Afenifere.’’ Ajulo further expressed his belief that the people of the South-East
region would vote for President Muhammadu Buhari in the poll. He noted that since the commissioning of dedicated power station for
Ariara market, it was like a veil was lifted off the eyes of the people
of Aba in Abia. “Go into Ariara market now and sample their opinions on Buhari; you
will find out that the noise on Facebook is different from the reality. “In Imo, all the major parties, apart from the PDP, are working for Buhari to win; quote me. “APC, AA, ACCORD, APGA all of them are assiduously working for Buhari and Ebonyi is not an exception.’’ Ajulo noted that Gov. David Umahi of Ebonyi had been a friend of the
president and that Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu was not
averse to Buhari long as he came back to the Senate. According to him, these scenarios are pointers to the fact that the South-East would vote “massively” for APC