On the International Day of Zero Tolerance for Female Genital Mutilation, the United Nations and its relevant sub-bodies like UNFPA, UNICEF and UN Women have reaffirmed their commitment to end this violation of human rights, so that the tens of millions of girls who are still at risk of being mutilated by 2030 do not experience the same suffering as Mary. In a joint statement released today with the consent of Dr. Natalia Kanem, Executive Director, UNFPA; Henrietta
H. Fore, Executive Director, UNICEF; and Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, Executive
Director, UN Women, the organisation narrated the sad story of Mary Oloiparuni
who was forcefully mutilated at 13. Restrained in a doorway early one morning
in her home, she was cut, bled profusely and experienced agonizing pain. The
scarring she endured then continues to cause her pain today, 19 years later. It
has made giving birth to each of her five children an excruciating and
harrowing experience. But Mary
is not alone. At least 200 million girls and women alive today have had their
genitals mutilated –
suffering one of the most inhuman acts of gender-based violence in the world. This
effort, according to the statement, is especially critical because female genital
mutilation leads to long-term physical, psychological and social consequences.
It violates women’s rights to sexual and reproductive health, physical
integrity, non-discrimination and freedom from cruel or degrading treatment. It
is also a violation of medical ethics: Female genital mutilation is never safe,
no matter who carries it out or how clean the venue is. The statement
reads that, ‘’Because female genital mutilation is a form of gender-based
violence, we cannot address it in isolation from other forms of violence against
women and girls, or other harmful practices such as early and forced marriages.
To end female genital mutilation, we have to tackle the root causes of gender
inequality and work for women’s social and economic empowerment. ‘’In
2015, world leaders overwhelmingly backed the elimination of female genital
mutilation as one of the targets in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development. This is an achievable goal, and we must act now to translate that
political commitment into action. ‘’At the national level, we need new policies and
legislation protecting the rights of girls and women to live free from violence
and discrimination. Governments in countries where female genital mutilation is prevalent should also develop national
action plans to end the practice. To be effective, their plans must include
budget lines dedicated to comprehensive sexual and reproductive health,
education, social welfare and legal services. ‘’At the regional level, we need institutions and
economic communities to work together, preventing the movement of girls and
women across borders when the purpose is to get them into countries with less
restrictive female
genital mutilation laws. ‘’Locally, we need religious leaders to strike down
myths that female
genital mutilation has a basis in religion. Because societal pressures often drive the practice, individuals and
families need more information about the benefits of abandoning it. ‘’Public pledges to abandon female genital
mutilation – particularly pledges by entire communities – are an effective
model of collective commitment. But public pledges must be paired with
comprehensive strategies for challenging the social norms, practices and
behaviours that condone female genital mutilation. Testimonials by survivors
like Mary also help to build understanding of the practice’s grim reality and
long-lasting impact on women’s lives. Advocacy campaigns and social media can
amplify the message that ending female genital mutilation saves and improves lives. ‘’Thanks
to the collective action of governments, civil society, communities and
individuals, female genital mutilation is in decline. But we are not aiming for
fewer cases of this practice. We are insisting on zero.’’ The Nigerian Context The
recent Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS 2016 -2017) shows some decline
in the incidence of FGM in Nigeria, 18.4% of women aged 15-49 years now undergo
FGM; a decrease from 27% in 2011.  UNICEF and partners’ interventions to
ensure the elimination of FGM by 2030 has resulted in a break in the barrier
against discussing FGM publicly. Religious leaders, community stakeholders and
young people now speak out against this practice. Subsequently, last year, more
than 309 communities publicly declared abandonment of the practice. “Despite
this decline, millions of girls and women are still faced with the scourge of
genital mutilation every year in Nigeria. There is, therefore, an urgent need
for decision makers and political leaders to take concrete action towards
ending the harmful practice of FGM in Nigeria”, said Mohamed Fall, UNICEF
Country representative.