LAGOS – Prospective candidates for the 2019 JAMB/UTME have been urged to
take advantage of the various payment platforms for registration to
enable them beat the February 21, deadline. This advice was given by
digital payment and commerce company, Interswitch, following its
accreditation by the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) to
provide e-PINs and registration payment for candidates looking to
register for the JAMB/UTME examinations. Candidates who want to
register for the 2019 JAMB/UTME examinations, can easily obtain their
e-PINs and forms from enabled Interswitch platforms such as Quickteller
Mobile App/Web, Quickteller Paypoint (Agents), payment with Interswitch
WebPAY on JAMB’s website and payment using Interswitch Paydirect at any
bank branch nationwide. Olawale Akanbi, Group Head, Corporate
Solutions at Interswitch explained that these Interswitch platforms have
been enhanced to make the registration process easier for the
candidates. He said: “We have provided a variety of payment
platforms that are reliable, user-friendly and very secure. Candidates
have varied options across the Interswitch platforms. This includes a
payment collection solution that allows them to make payment at any bank
branch and other channels, including ATMs and mobile”. To avoid
the conceivable difficulties associated with the registration process,
prospective candidates can follow the simple steps outlined below: Candidate sends “Surname FirstName MiddleName” to short code “55019”. A text is sent to the candidate acknowledging receipt of the request. A process code is sent to the candidate via SMS. Candidate
takes code to Quickteller App/Web, Bank Branch, or Quickteller Paypoint
Agent Location, then provides unique ID to proceed with the payment. Candidate can now proceed with the payment via Quickteller App/Web, Bank Branch, or Quickteller Paypoint Agent Location. Since
its accreditation by JAMB in 2017, Interswitch has successfully enabled
a seamless registration process for UTME candidates, providing up to
30,000 e-PINs daily. Interswitch services are available online, across
more than 18,000 ATMs, all Bank branches nationwide and over 18,000
Quickteller Paypoint Agents across Nigeria. “Interswitch has for
15 years successfully delivered digital payments solutions in Nigeria
with footprints across East Africa and Gambia. The JAMB UTME
registration across the Interswitch platforms is not only easy and
stress-free, it is also very reliable and secure,” Akanbi added.  