By Itohan Abara-Laserian Lagos – The Tomatoes and Orchid Producers Association of Nigeria (TOPAN), on Monday advised the Federal Government to look into sensitisation of farmers on tomato farming to increase yield per hectare. The association’s President, Mr Job Oyeleke, told the News Agency of
Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos that by increasing yields, foreign investors
would be attracted to the sector to develop tomato paste production. Oyeleke made the assertion against the backdrop of the Federal
Government’s plan to totally ban importation of tomato products by 2021. He said that the ban would ensure that unwholesome tomato import into
the country was reduced to the barest minimum and to promote food
security and safety, describing as worrisome the qualities of imported
products. “Federal Government’s proposed ban of tomato products by 2021 is a
good development for our tomato industry and it is also a good one for
our tomato farmers. “When you look at the importation of tomato paste, the quality is not
developing the nation’s food safety. The problem is that the country is
not always concerned about the quality of what comes into the nation. “The content of tomato in the paste brought into the country is just
about two per cent, while others are chemicals, so Nigerians are not
even consuming edible tomato paste. “It is now very important for government to start farmers’ advocacy
on increased production of the commodity thereby increasing yields per
hectare from between 15 and 25 tonnes to at least 60 tonnes,’’ he said. Oyeleke also called for a level playing field that would attract
investors to invest in processing of tomato paste after government must
have assured them of the production of raw materials. “What government should do is to ensure a level playing field that
will allow tomato paste processing to thrive. The tomato industry is
huge and government should start looking at increased production. “Also, they should invest in the production of tomato with high oil content for the tomato paste to be sweeter. “Currently, Nigeria produces 15 to 25 tonnes per hectare but with
this development, we should be looking at increasing to at least 60
tonnes per hectare to achieve the policy of government. “The modalities should be properly worked out to ensure that there
are enough tomatoes when the tomato pastes processing increases.
Government should embark on training farmers on tomato farming. “All of these will attract investors to come with new technologies.
If there is increase in production, investors can come while government
assures them of availability of raw materials,’’ he said.