Addis Ababa – African leaders for nutrition launched a continental accountability scorecard as an instrument for better advocacy and accountability to achieve nutrition security in Africa. The Continental Nutrition Accountability Score Card was developed to
measure progress made by the AU member states to achieve nutrition
security, the AU revealed on Wednesday. King Letsie III of Lesotho was awarded as Africa’s champion for nutrition by the AU. Letsie said that the endorsement of the African Leaders for Nutrition
by the assembly of AU “marks an important landmark that holds promise
of great growth and renewal for nutrition in Africa.” Welcoming the launch of the nutrition scorecard, King Letsie III also
emphasised full cognisance of the centrality of nutrition to unlock the
full potential and future of African economies. AU Commissioner for Social Affairs, Amira Elfadil, also noted that
the continental nutrition scorecard would provide data and information
toward facilitating dialogue with African leaders for new financial and
policy commitments on nutrition. According to Elfadil, the continental nutrition scorecard will help
“to deliver the socioeconomic returns that are most needed by our
people”. The AU commissioner also highlighted the effects of conflict, hunger
and malnutrition on the continent, with particular emphasis attached to
the need to silence the guns by 2020 and to make progress with
establishment of a continental free trade area. President of the African Development bank (AfDB), Akinwumi Adesina,
also commended the AU, the AfDB and partners for their efforts in
developing the Continental Nutrition Accountability Score Card. Adesina also stressed the need to shift the debate from nutrition as a
social development issue to one that shapes economic growth and
development of African countries. In another development, Kenyan researchers have formed a team to
spearhead establishment of open data to generate information and
services for smallholder farmers in agriculture and nutrition. Joseph Mureithi, Deputy Director-General in Charge of Livestock at
Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation (KALRO), said
this at the launch of the team in Nairobi on Wednesday. “Open data will provide advice and warning to farmers to enable them
to take precautions and avoid making unnecessary losses,” said Mureithi. Mureithi noted that making data more open, easily available and
accessible accelerates innovation and generates economic and social
benefits. He added that openly available weather data could provide farmers with early warnings against adverse farming conditions. The group that is composed of agricultural researchers, information,
communication and technology (ICT) experts, weathermen and Regional
Centre for Mapping of Resources for Development (RCMRD), plans to
integrate weather data and agricultural research data using ICT tools
and techniques. According to Boniface Akuku, ICT Director at KALRO, limited technical
capacities of data producers, data managers and data consumers have
hindered effective generation and utilisation of data products and
services in the country. Akuku said that Kenya currently had rudimentary weather data and
agricultural research data that do not provide well informed agronomic
advisories to farmers. He observed that even though a lot of agricultural information,
agricultural statistics and weather information are produced and
provided, they are not downscaled for on-farm application. “The information, therefore, cannot sufficiently meet the aggregate
demand that the farmers require from the resource,” he added. Akuku observed that the proposed open data will incorporate adequate
skills and ICT platforms to analyse large amounts of open data on crop,
pasture, soil and climate. (Xinhua/NAN)