By Ismaila Chafe Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari has challenged historians and economists to document “the 16 years squander-mania and mismanagement by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)”, so that future generations would not repeat the same mistakes. A statement by the President Special Adviser on Media and Publicity,
Mr Femi Adesina, disclosed that Buhari gave the challenge when he
received members of the Forum of Presidential Candidates and Political
Parties for Good Governance at the State House, Abuja on Thursday. The President, who got another vital endorsement from 12 members of
the Forum, noted that the mismanagement during the PDP’s years was
unparalleled. “Our historians and economists should help document it, so that
future generations would take note, and not repeat the mistakes,’’ he
added The President told his guests he was glad that Nigerians understood
the three fundamentals on which the administration was anchored namely;
securing the country, reviving the economy, and fighting corruption. He listed many achievements in the three focal areas, and declared:
“We lost unimaginable revenue in the 16 years of mismanagement of the
country by the previous PDP administrations. Look at the state of roads,
rail, power, and infrastructure generally, as at 2015, when we came
into office. “The roads were not done, neither were they even maintained. The
number of lives and property lost on Lagos/Ibadan Expressway on a daily
basis, for instance, was very sad and tragic. And many other roads like
that in the country. “If the various administrations had fixed infrastructure, Nigerians
would have simply minded their businesses. They wouldn’t bother about
who even governs them. “But the mismanagement was unparalleled. Our historians and
economists should help document it, so that future generations would
take note, and not repeat the mistakes.’’ President Buhari said after contesting four times, “before God agreed
with me in 2015, I had a clear plan of what I wanted to do, and people
are now seeing the progress we are making.’’ The president, who thanked the 12 presidential candidates that
subordinated their own ambitions, and directed all their members and
supporters to vote for him in Saturday’s election, said he was
overwhelmed by their patriotism. “I am overwhelmed by your patriotism. The least you could do was to
deny me votes in your immediate constituencies. However much your people
loved me, they would have voted for their own first. I am really
overwhelmed by your support,’’ he added. Chairman of the Forum, Shitu Kabir, who is also the presidential
candidate of Advanced Peoples Democratic Alliance (APDA), said they
decided to throw in their lots with President Buhari because of advances
made in security, economy, fighting corruption, infrastructural
development, agricultural revolution, and many others. According to Kabir, Nigerian political landscape is taking a new dimension. “As a group of political parties committed to the realization of a
new Nigeria, we identify with these laudable feats of the President,
which are in proximity with ours, as exemplified in our manifestoes. “We, therefore, wish to support President Buhari’s candidacy in the
coming election, and direct all our teeming members across the length
and breadth of Nigeria to go out in their numbers, to vote for APC
candidates, Muhammadu Buhari/Yemi Osinbajo, in the coming election,’’ he
said. Other members of the Forum that acquiesced to the endorsement
include: Hon. Edozie Madu of Independent Democrats; Danjuma Mohammed
(Movement for Restoration & Defence of Democracy); Yusuf Nadabo
Dantalle (Allied Peoples Movement); Ahmed Buhari (Save Nigeria Party)
and Alhaji Isah B. Dansarki of the Mass Movement of Nigeria. Others included Ikechukwu Nwaokafor (Advance Congress of Democrats);
Alista Soyode (Yes Party); Charles Ogbali (Advanced Nigeria Democratic
Party); Kenneth Ibe Kalu (United Peoples Congress); Comrade Isiyaka Paul
Femili (Nigeria Element Progressive Party) and Robinson Akpu of the
National Democratic Liberty Party.(NAN)