By Folasade Adeniran Lagos – Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State has urged residents to conduct themselves peacefully at the polling units and shun any act of violence or misconduct that could threaten peace of the state. Ambode gave the advice on Wednesday in Lagos, saying that the nation
was on a threshold of history as the outcome of the elections would be a
defining moment in Nigeria’s political and economic landscape. He urged residents to see the election as one that they must not sit
on the fence, but come out to exercise their franchise albeit in a
peaceful and orderly manner, devoid of rancour and all forms of
electoral violence. “As we prepare for the Presidential and National Assembly elections, I
appeal to every Lagosian to ensure that the peace we have enjoyed in
the last four years in the state is replicated across all the polling
units and voting centres on Saturday. “Your PVC is your voice and it is what you will need to cast your vote. “I urge you to come out, be orderly, take your place on the queue and
avoid any form of violence that can mar the process or put the lives of
our peace loving citizens at risk,” he said. Ambode said that he would be cast his vote for candidates of the All
Progressives Congress (APC) in the Presidential and all the National
Assembly elections. According to him, Lagos in the last four years had benefitted immensely from the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. He listed some of the key capital projects which the state had initiated with the support of the Federal Government. According to him, they include the release of Oshodi-Muritala
Muhammed Airport Road for reconstruction; release of land space in
Oshodi for the construction of the interchange and terminus. Others were the release of Oshodi-Abule Egba lane for BRT and the
release of the Presidential Lodge, Marina for the Lagos History Centre
project; the ongoing road infrastructure works in Apapa-Oshodi
Expressway, Badagry-Seme and Ikorodu axis. Ambode said these were the intervention projects that President Buhari expeditiously approved to be carried out in the state. “The fact is that since 1999, Lagos has never benefitted from the
Federal Government under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government,
the way it has benefited in the last three and half years. “Most of the interventions that we have carried out have made life more meaningful to the average resident of the state. “Beyond reasonable doubt, President Buhari has shown his love for Lagos and under his administration, Lagos has thrived. “It is important that we continue on this trajectory for another four years,” Ambode said.