By Naomi Sharang Abuja, – The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has denied an allegation that its  operatives  poisoned the Chairman of the defunct  Skye Bank , Mr Tunde Ayeni A statement by the commission’s acting spokesman, Mr Tony Orilade in
Abuja on Saturday dismissed the allegation as a “false alarm is to
incite public opinion against the EFCC. “The attention of the EFCC has been drawn to a report in Thisday
newspaper of Saturday, February 9 with the headline: “EFCC Has Poisoned
Tunde Ayeni in Custody, Allege Opposition Parties.” “The report according to the author, followed a press release issued
on Friday, February 8, in Abuja by the spokesman of the Coalition of
United Political Parties (CUPP) CUPP, Mr Ikenga Ugochinyere. “Ugochinyere claimed that a credible source revealed to him that
Ayeni was currently undergoing treatment “in an undisclosed medical
facility after he was poisoned in the detention cell of the EFCC. “We found it compelling to state in no unclear terms that Ayeni upon
arrest and conveyance to the commission was neither offered food nor
drink by our operatives. “There was also nothing consumable: food, drink or water that was
brought to him within the brief period he was with his interrogators. “When he complained of illness and opted to see a doctor,  he was promptly obliged. “We also wish to state that so far, there has not been any report of
any dire health condition on Ayeni and it’s likely there would not be. “The public may wish to know that the commission in the course of its
duties has become conversant with all manners of theatrics from some
suspects who would elect not to cooperate. “It is also our desire to inform CUPP that as a commission, we follow
due process, and that we are a law-abiding entity and as such, will not
keep Ayeni longer than required by law. “We also give our word that he will have his day in court as and when due. “We therefore wish to clarify that Ayeni has allegations of
corruption to thrash out with us. It was strictly for this purpose that
he became our guest. “It is important at this point that we restate that the commission
under the leadership of its Acting Chairman, Ibrahim Magu is well
insulated from going-ons in the political space and that our mandate is
well cut out for us by constitution.”