By Okeoghene Akubuike Abuja – The United States is to partner Nigeria in building the capacity of academics in Nigerian universities through its Fulbright’s Scholarship Programme. Dr Jacob Alada, Director, Public Affairs, TETFund made this known in a statement in Abuja on Tuesday. Alada said this was the focus of discussion when the Executive
Secretary of TETFund Prof. Suleiman Bogoro received the Cultural Affairs
Officer of the U.S. in Nigeria, Mr Sterling Tilley on Monday. He said that the visit was to strengthen the existing relations between the United States Embassy and the Fund. He said that the U.S. would partner through the Fulbright’s
Scholarship Programme and the TETFund Academic Staff Scholarship
programme. “(The) Academic staff of Nigeria’s Universities are supported by both
the TETFund and U.S. Government to undertake their Masters and PhD.
Programmes in the U.S. at a cost to be shared. “Furthermore, TETFund Scholars who are undertaking their PhD’s in
science-related fields in Nigeria could also benefit by being jointly
sponsored by the Fund and the US Government to undertake their Benchwork
in Universities and Research Centers or Institutes in the US. “This process which started in 2015 with Prof. Bogoro if concluded
will further justify the confidence the US Government has on the Fund as
one of the foremost Agencies of Government in Nigeria.” Bogoro said that the visit and the desire to revive discussions on this partnership came at a right time. He added that it would increase the number of participants seeking to
further their studies at the Masters and PhD levels as well as those
undertaking their Bench work in America’s Universities or Research
Institutes/Centers. Bogoro pointed out that the Fund would expand its scholarship
programme to accommodate the increasing number of academic staff
yearning for opportunities to further their studies. He gave the assurance that the Fund was ready for such partnership
and would facilitate arrangements to ensure it was concretised within
the shortest possible time. The executive secretary further stated that US Government wanted to
partner with TETFund because of the credibility of its Scholarship
Programme. “It should be noted that scholars on this partnership will enjoy the
full status of both TETFund and Fulbright Scholars and other
opportunities available after the completion of their programmes.” The Fulbright Programme is sponsored by the United States Department
of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, under world-wide
policy guidelines established by the Fulbright Board. (NAN)