By Emmanuel Acha Enugu – Former Governor of Enugu State Mr Sullivan Chime says President Muhammadu Buhari deserves the support of the South-East region in the Feb. 16 presidential election. Chime also said that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was no longer
an option for Ndigbo, adding that the party had outlived its
usefulness. The former governor disclosed this on Thursday in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu. He said that the South-East and entire old Eastern Nigeria needed to
be grateful for the massive infrastructure upgrade going on in the
region by the Buhari’s administration. According to him, the only way to show appreciation is to support the
re-election of the president instead of joining forces with those that
held the economy down during their time. Chime, who was the governor of the state between 2007 and 2015 on the
platform of PDP, said that the Buhari-led administration had turned the
South-East to a massive construction site. The development he said, was unlike previous administrations that neglected the area. The former governor particularly mentioned the ongoing effort to
realise the Second Niger Bridge in a record time which he said had been
an object of politics by successive administrations. “The Buhari administration has taken infrastructure development to
the next level in the South-East and nobody should interrupt the
momentum. “Under a PDP administration, and not minding that the then president
was from the old Eastern Nigeria, they did not include the Port
Harcourt-Enugu-Makurdi Rail Lines when they were reviving the rail
lines. “It was not part of their programme. It is this administration that
included it. The then president spent six years in office, yet you
cannot give him credit for just one single project in the area. “Do you know how many times the Enugu-Onitsha Express Road was
awarded but nothing happened? Today, President Buahri is realising that
project,” he said. Chime said that the situation applied to the whole of the Enugu-Port
Harcourt Express and other federal roads across the region which the
current administration was working on. He said that the people of the area had a cause to be grateful for the APC administration. “The Buhari administration is doing a lot in that area. Look at what
they have done in the agricultural sector and the N-Power project which
has engaged thousands of Nigerians. “We should allow Buhari to complete his tenure after which we look
for somebody in his mould to continue from where he will stop,” he said. Chime said that his faith in the re-election of the president was not
shaken, in spite of the falsehood detractors were peddling against him. He said that APC would certainly do well in the region in general and
Enugu State in particular, considering the rising profile of the party
in the area. “With all certainty, there will be a major improvement on whatever
the president scored in Enugu in 2015 because there was no APC here
then. “We are talking to the people and putting the records straight. I
believe that Buhari is the best thing to happen to this country, this
time. “We should think about tomorrow as we go out to vote on Saturday and
forget about all the sentiments being whipped by people desperate for
power. “The only way to go is APC. When PDP was in power, it was like they
had no opposition and they were just doing whatever they liked. “But today, it is a different ball game. God will bless Enugu people for voting Buhari,” Chime said.