By Ismaila Chafe Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday swore-in eight new Permanent Secretaries with a challenge that they should remain above board and eschew partisanship in their decisions and actions. The president, who gave the challenge while swearing-in the permanent
secretaries shortly before the commencement of the meeting of the
Federal Executive Council (FEC), at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, said
they must strive to achieve excellence at all times. He also enjoined the new permanent secretaries to key into the
Federal Government’s programmes aimed at reforming Nigeria and restoring
the confidence of Nigerians in government and the civil service. “To enable you to achieve this, we approved the Federal Civil Service Strategy and Implementation Plan 2017 to 2020. “This plan will ensure the civil service is adequately manned and
equipped to operate efficiently as it implements government policies for
inclusive growth and development. “When fully implemented, we would have successfully transformed the
Civil Service into an efficient, productive, incorruptible and
citizen-centered machinery of government. “Therefore, l wish to take this opportunity to solicit your support
and cooperation as we implement all the programmes of government in a
result -oriented manner that will leave an indelible legacy. “In doing this, you must all remain above board and eschew
partisanship your decisions and actions. You must strive to achieve
excellence at all times. Your motto should be civility and
serviceability,’’ he said. President Buhari stated that the call had become imperative in view
of the fact that “the country needs a very vibrant, professional and
selfless civil service that will help our country overcome its pressing
problems.’’ The president also frowned at the way and manner successive
government had abused, undermined and destroyed the systems of checks
and balances within the civil service that were meant to protect and
preserve the interest of the citizens. According to him, the systemic abuse of power has significantly
enriched a few privileged individuals while at the same time making
majority of the citizens poorer and underserved. “As a result, many Nigerians lost confidence in Government and its
ability to deliver the required guidance and service to our people. “When we came to office in May 2015, we promised Nigerians three
cardinal programmes namely: Security, inclusive and diversified Economic
Development and war against Corruption and abuse of power. “I am pleased to say that in less than four years, we have made
progress on all fronts working very collaboratively with the civil
service,’’ he said. President Buhari, who congratulated the new permanent secretaries,
assured the entire civil service and the wider public service of his
administration’s commitment to their welfare and capacity development at
all times. The new permanent secretaries, who took their oath of office included
Dr Bakari Wadinga (Adamawa); Dr Mohammed Dikwa (Borno); Dr Ajani
Magdalene N. Olor (Delta) and Umakhihe Ernest Afolabi (Edo). Others were Mbaeri Maurice Nnamdi (Imo) Babatunde Lawal (Lagos) Mr.
Festus Yusuf Narai Daudu (Nasarawa) and Abel Olumuyiwa Enitan, (Osun).