By Chidinma Ewunonu-Aluko Ibadan – Gov. Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo State has donated N5 million to Union Baptist Church, Ekotedo, Ibadan, toward immortalising the late Mrs Mariam Popoola, the mother of a former military administrator of Oyo State, retired Gen. Oladayo Popoola. The governor, who announced the donation at the funeral service held
at the church on Friday in Ibadan, described the deceased as a virtuous
and pious woman. Ajimobi, who  said the late Popoola gave birth to children of
integrity, rejoiced with the family  for her attaining the age of   102
years until her passage. The Pastor of Union Baptist Church, Pastor Jonathan Babalola, urged
Christians to ensure that they embraced  Christ before death. “You must acknowledge that you are a sinner and repent of your sins
as the first step to encounter Christ;  do all you can to receive the
gift of God which is eternal life through Christ. “The late mama was very committed to God till her death and God in
His mercy sustained her life; she lived a life worthy of emulation,” he
said. Babalola urged the late Popoola’s children to follow the footsteps of
their mother and strive hard to keep the unity of the faith in their
family. In a tribute, the former  military administrator  described his late
mother as a rare being, a woman who selflessly dedicated herself to her
children, grand children, great grand children, community and those who
came in contact with her. “Her love was unconditional, she disciplined but in a loving way, she
lived a simple life with the love of her grandchildren being the utmost
priority. “It didn’t take much to make mama happy, a visit to her house or
phone call gladdened her heart, and she is a star that will forever live
in our hearts. “Money can diminish, property ruined but what we inherited from mama
can never be destroyed, it’s more than a loving memory,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the highlight of the
occasion was a prayer made by Christian faithful for successful
elections and peace in Nigeria. Dignitaries at the occasion included a former governor of Oyo State,
Chief Alao Akala, the Ogun state Deputy Governor, Mrs Yetunde Onanuga
and  some members of the Oyo State Executive Council. The late  Popoola was born on April 20, 1916 and died on Nov.30, 2018. She was blessed with six  children, 24 grandchildren and 32 great-grandchildren. (NAN)