By Martins Abochol  Michika – Gov. Mohammed Bindow of Adamawa on Saturday ordered the immediate reinstatement of 80 sacked workers of Michika Local Government Area of the state. Bindow gave the directive during his governorship re-election campaign rally in Michika. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that the 80 staff were
disengaged by a screening panel over some discrepancies in the process
of their appointments. The governor in making the order recalled that he had enjoyed the
support of the people when he represented the area at the Senate. He urged the locality to continue to support All Progressives
Congress (APC) to change the narratives of the state in particular and
the nation at large. He assured the people of his determination to provide massive infrastructural development to the area when re-elected. Alhaji Ibrahim Bilal, Chairman of the APC in the state said that the
Bindow administration had brought change especially in the area of
infrastructural development in the state. Bilal explained that the area had produced leaders in the past but lacked development. While receiving decampees, the chairman assured the people that
President Muhammadu Buhari would continue to provide security for the
people of the region According to him, plans are on ground to provide massive road
infrastructure by the Bindow-led administration if given another term In his remark, Director General of Buhari Bindow Campaign
Organisation, Chief Felix Tangwami appreciated the large turnout of
people at the rally Tangwami said that the present dispensation was of immense advantage to people of Michika and urged them to vote en mass for the party to continue its good works. Patience Kwache, who spoke on behalf of decampees, explained that
they were tired of following other parties that do not have any hope for
the people. Kwache said that the people had long expected development in the past, noting that APC had proven to be the people’s government. She assured the campaign train of their resolve to massively vote for APC in the coming elections. Mr Vandi Favanza, Chairman of the council appealed to the governor to
construct more roads in the area and  provide employment opportunities
for youths and women. NAN reports that Michika local government is among areas liberated under the present administration by the military from Boko Haram insurgents.