By Thompson Yamput Bokkos – Sen. Jerry Useni, the PDP governorship candidate in Plateau, has promised to improve the living and working conditions of traditional rulers in the state, if elected its governor. Useni made the pledge on Saturday, during a visit to the Emir of Kanam, Alhaji Mohammed Muazu II, in Dengi. “As the National Chairman of the Traditional Council under the Gen.
Sani Abacha administration, I worked toward better living conditions for
traditional rulers across the country. “If elected, I will replicate that gesture for traditional rulers in Plateau. “We cannot afford to have our royal fathers begging for basic needs
of life; we cannot allow them to live in squalid conditions that are
demeaning to their status. “Since they look after the people, we must also show them respect by looking after them well,” Useni said. The senator also decried the poor handling of the security situation
in Plateau, and regretted the insincerity that had only worsened the
situation. “The Plateau government has always tried to hide the truth from
President Muhammadu Buhari. This is not right because the President
needs the truth so as to take the right steps to protect the people. “Plateau was on fire when Buhari visited the state in 2018, but the
government refused to tell him the truth. They opted to lie about the
situation. This is not fair to the victims. “We must stop playing politics with the lives of our people. While
the state government was desperately trying to hide the truth from the
president, many people were killed in their different villages,” he
added. He declared that his government would not play politics with the lives of the Plateau people. Responding, the Emir enumerated the many good works Useni did for Kanam when he was Minister of the Federal Capital Territory. “I remember you directly donated 600 bags of cement and led the late
Emir to the then Vice President Atiku Abubakar, who gave a donation of
N1 million for the construction of the Dengi Central Mosque. “You are indeed a general in everything. Today, I sincerely give you
my royal blessing as you go seeking the mandate of the people of Plateau
to serve them as governor,” the Emir said. At the Dengi mini stadium, Useni assured the people of his readiness
to ensure an enabling environment for everyone to live and prosper in
their chosen businesses. At Bokkos, he told the Acting paramount ruler, Chief Lawrence Izat, that PDP would wipe away the tears of Plateau citizens. Responding, Izat said that the people of Bokkos were desirous of a leader that could bring succor to them. Izat gave the senator his royal blessings, and urged his supporters to ensure a peaceful campaign.