The Coalition of United Political Parties, CUPP, has described the latest warrant of arrest issued by the Code of Conduct Tribunal to the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria, Walter Onnoghen as a deliberate ploy by the federal government to clamp down on the embattled CJN. In a statement issued by the groups spokesman, Ikenga Ugochinyere, it said: “The warrant of arrest issued against the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen, by the Chairman of the Code of Conduct Tribunal has confirmed the position of the Coalition of United Political Parties that the Presidency has intensified efforts to clamp down on the CJN and use the stage managed offensive against the CJN to intimidate the judiciary and divert attention from the issues of Incompetence of the Buhari led APC govt.The arrest order and planned arraignment of the CJN few hours to election is a failed plot to use Buharis fake anti corruption fight to lure voters into believing the President is fighting corruption.” The statement further said: “With this order, President Muhammadu Buhari has taken his naked dance in the market place to a ridiculous level.” It is ridiculous that a government that has been promising free and fair elections can be planning to arraign the country’s CJN on Friday, 24 hours to the country’s presidential election. We see this as a last minute effort to divert attention, confuse Nigerian voters and cover the President’s incompetence few hours to election. It is also an attempt to divert attention from electoral violence being planned by the ruling All Progressives Congress. We therefore call for a mass protest across the 36 states of the federation on Friday, being the day scheduled for the arraignment of the CJN. Friday is dedicated as a National Action Day Against the rampaging Dictator. All Non-Governmental organisations, activists and political parties should hold rallieds at their local government areas, states and at the federal level. All lawyers, activists, youths and opposition politicians must stage protests and remain vigilant from Friday till Sunday to avoid the political barbarians using the CJN matter to divert attention and sneak in to steal the will of the people.  Source