Ismaila Chafe Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday challenged agents of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the forthcoming polls to be vigilant and watch out for the party’s  interests at the polling units during the forthcoming general elections. The president gave the charge at the opening of the ongoing emergency
caucus meeting of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abuja on
Monday. President Buhari, who said he had garnered adequate support of the
electorate to guarantee his electoral victory during the forthcoming
presidential election, stressed the need for APC members to reassure
their constituents to come out and vote on the rescheduled dates. He urged all party members to always shun acts capable of disrupting
the conduct of the rescheduled elections, saying that he had ordered
security agents to deal ruthlessly with party thugs that try to snatched
ballot boxes. According to him, security agencies have also been directed to
identify hot spots and be ready to move should they suspect any attempts
to cause commotions or trouble by thugs irrespective of party
affiliations. On the postponed elections, the president said he learnt of the
decision of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) at
about 4.45a.m. on Saturday “There is no explanation for what we went through. I was told about
the decision of INEC at quarter to 5am in the morning of the elections. “INEC had all the time and resources, didn’t have to wait six hours to the elections to announced postponement. “Definitely, INEC must explain to Nigerians what happened. The
constitution and the law protects INEC, but they must not take us for
granted. “If we had failed to provide all what INEC wanted, then we would have been held responsible “So at least after the elections we will have to go into details to find out what happened,’’ he said. The APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, condemned  the decision of INEC to postpone the general elections. “We saw INEC’s magic. The worst had happened by postponing the elections by one week without cogent reasons. “If we and ordinary Nigerians were shocked, then we can only imagine how shocked you were, more so as you are determined. “This action was meant to frustrate our party and discourage voters.’’ He, however, stated that the party was determined to put INEC to
shame, saying that, “we are committed to free, fair and credible
elections. We are not going to compromise on that.’’ Oshiomhole used the occasion to commend President Buhari for his
efforts for going round the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory
(FCT) during the just concluded nationwide campaign tour of the country. According to him, the governing party is determined not to disappoint supporters and Nigerians