Ikuru Lizzy Port Harcourt – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Rivers has alleged plots by the All Progressives Congress (APC ) to destabilise the general elections in the state. Mr Desmond Akawo, Director-General, Rivers PDP Campaign Council, made
the allegation at a news conference on Tuesday in Port Harcourt. Akawo said that it became necessary to draw the attention of
Nigerians and the international community to the plot and determination
of the APC to prevent the elections from holding on Feb. 23 and March 9
in the state. It will be recalled that the Independent National Electoral
Commission (INEC) had slated Feb. 23, and March 9 for the Presidential/
National Assembly and Governorship/State Assembly elections
respectively. Akawo said that indications in the state showed that the APC might
scuttle the rights of the people of the state to a free and fair
electoral process. The director-general said that the APC at different fora had
threatened that there would be no elections in the state until all
pending litigations by the APC got to the apex Court for final decision. Akawo said that the PDP was dismayed over continued silence of the
Federal Government and the security agencies whom, he alleged, had
failed to caution those behind such widely published threats capable of
inciting the people of the state. “The APC in a viral media publication by one of its chieftains, Mr
Tonye Princewill on the Daily Post newspaper of Feb. 7, had said, it
will be lawful to be lawless if INEC fails to unlawfully include the APC
and its candidates on the ballot paper.” “In all of these threats by some APC chieftains, including the one
issued during the Rivers Presidential campaign rally by the
Transportation Minister, Mr Rotimi Amaechi, who even incited his
supporters with a war song, had yet to attract any condemnation by ether
the security agencies nor the Federal Government,” he said. Akawo also alleged that several undemocratic strategies ranging from
threats to even moves to bribe electoral officers and connive with
security agencies to tamper with sensitive electoral materials had been
employed by Rivers APC to disrupt smooth process. In the same vain, Mr Ferdinand Anabraba, Chairman PDP Campaign
Council, also alleged that the APC had displayed high level desperation
and ready to do anything toward winning elections in the state. “Just this morning, I got an information that my property in Abonima
had forcefully been occupied by the army and the officers who are
stationed there and are being used to cause crises in Abonima and
Akuku-Toru Local Government Councils. “It is important to note that whatever crises that will arise in
Rivers, we will know its coming from the APC and the security agencies,”
he alleged. Meanwhile efforts by NAN to reach the APC stalwarts to react to the allegations failed before this publication. (NAN)