A spokesman for the Peoples Democratic Party Campaign Council, Buba Galadima, has been arrested on Sunday. One of Mr Galadima’s daughters confirmed the arrest to DAILY NIGERIAN, saying her father was trailed in his car to an area around Wuse 2 area and whisked away by security agents in an unregistered vehicle. Earlier in a statement on Sunday, spokesman for Buhari Campaign Council Festus Keyamo, has called for the arrest of Mr Galadima for allegedly announcing the PDP candidate winner while collation of results was ongoing. “Our call is therefore to INEC, NIGERIA BROADCASTING COMMISSION and all law-enforcement agencies to continually warn the PDP and all their surrogates like the amorphous CUPP and their likes that anyone who flouts the law on announcement of official results will be made to face the law. Opposition does not confer immunity on anyone to flout the law. “In preparation for this reckless move, some PDP social media agents are already flying some kites on-line as to the number of States allegedly ‘won’ by PDP. In fact, Alhaji Buba Galadima, an official spokesperson for Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has made a short video announcing PDP as the ‘winner’ of the Presidential Election. As an official spokesperson, he is clearly acting on behalf of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and on his instruction. We, therefore call for the immediate arrest, interrogation and prosecution of Alhaji Buba Galadima in this regard. The world is watching and waiting on Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to say something on the video by Alhaji Buba Galadima. “Consequently, we urge all well-meaning Nigerians, the International Community and even reasonable members of the Opposition not to be bought by these cheap antics of the PDP. Let’s restrain our wards from being used by these unscrupulous elements. Nigeria will continue to exist after this election. “Over the years, the PDP had been declared ‘winner’ of Presidential elections under controversial circumstances. On those occasions, President Muhammadu Buhari never took laws into his hands and declared himself President. He also never declared parallel results. He availed himself of constitutional means to address his grievance by approaching the law courts. “Their latest devilish plot against the country is a clear indication that their apology to the Nigerian people was just a hoax. They have learnt nothing and they have forgotten nothing as they just cannot win any election fair and square,” Mr Keyamo added. Source:daily nigeria  