By Ismaila Chafe Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari has alerted Nigerians on the activities of looters of the nation’s resources bent on undermining the forthcoming general elections “and by extension our democracy’’. The President disclosed this in a special feature entitled;
“Corruption threats Nigeria – and its Election” which he released on
Sunday in Abuja. He observed that the looters with powerful resources at their
disposal, might frustrate smooth conduct of the elections because of
their vested interests. Buhari disclosed that already the Economic and Financial Crimes
Commission (EFCC) had raised concerns over laundered money being
funnelled into vote buying. He said: “This is the challenge of our generation: the variable on
which our success as a nation shall be determined. But the vested
interests at play can make this fight difficult. “By way of their looting, the corrupt have powerful resources at
their disposal. And they will use them. For when you fight corruption,
you can be sure it will fight back. “It even threatens to undermine February’s poll and – by extension – our democracy. “The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has raised concerns
over laundered money being funnelled into vote buying. This is the
problem of corruption writ large. “It illustrates how it lurks in all and every crevice of public life,
manipulating due process in pursuit of self-preservation and
perpetuation; protecting personal political and economic interests at
the expense of the common good.’’ The president noted that those who had criticised his
administration’s anti-corruption drive were those who opposed its
mission of fighting corruption to a standstill. “And though their lawyers may craft expensive alibis, they cannot
escape that which binds them together: a raft of documents and barely
legal (some clearly illegal) mechanisms – whether that be the Panama
Papers, US Congress reports, shell companies or offshore bank
accounts,’’ he said. Buhari, who vowed to intensify the fight against corruption, said
this was informed by the fact that corruption corroded the trust on
which the idea of community was founded, “because one rule for the few
and another for everyone else is unacceptable to anyone working
honestly.’’ According to him, as his administration intensifies war on corruption, corruption also innovates to resist the law. He stated that though the administration had closed the door against
the corrupt individuals, however, some of them were bent on opening
windows to continue with their dubious activities. He revealed that government had successfully repatriated hundreds of
millions of dollars stowed away in foreign banks by looters of the
national resources. According to him, more is still to come from international partners
in France, the United Kingdom and the United States of America. The president said that the recovered funds so far had been
transparently deployed on infrastructural projects and used to directly
empower the poorest in society. “But as we have intensified our war on corruption, so we have found that corruption innovates to resist the law. “This is not the sole domain of those Nigerians, but the
international corruption industry: the unsavoury fellow-traveler of
globalisation. “Once the enablers are let in – as they have been in the past – the
greed of those they collude with grows. We have closed the door on them,
but unfortunately there still remain individuals who are willing to
open windows. “Concrete progress has been made, but there is still much to do. We
have repatriated hundreds of millions of dollars stowed away in foreign
banks,’’ he said. The president also stated that the EFCC had secured high profile convictions, but greater cases remained. According to the president, lawyers table endless objections to
obstruct court proceedings, whilst their clients hope it lasts until a
‘friendly’ president is voted into office. He, however, maintained that, “we must continue to tighten the legal
framework and ensure the authorities have the investigative powers at
their disposal to secure sentences. “Only then will we begin to neutralise the advantages the corrupt have.’