By Modupe Oremule and Olanrewaju Akojede Lagos – A frontline marathoner, Alex Kanu, on Sunday gave pieces of advice on how to improve on the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon, especially the starting block which he claimed to have been below standard. The Namibia-based Kanu, who participated in the just-concluded
marathon on Saturday, said that though the start off was bad there were
other positives to point out to. “I had my desired race because I did prepare well enough, I ran with
confidence and relaxation though I did not meet the expected time of
return because I was unable to monitor. “One of the things I will like the organisers to take care of is the
starting point. The starting point was too rowdy which caused the
stampede at the beginning of the race. “This type of starting point is unacceptable, the escort should not
have been in the midst of the runners, this was the reason for the
stampede. The escort should have stayed beside. “Giving the elite athletes is a required standard, while others join
them, but the escorts should not have been within the runners,’’ he
said. Kanu, who has participated in Belgium, Holland, Namibia and South
African marathons, however, said that the just-concluded marathon was a
success comparatively. “I have participated in many marathons across the world, including
Belgium, Holland and when I came back to Africa, I participated in the
Two Ocean in South Africa and Namibia. “My first time experience with Nigeria’s marathon was great aside the
starting point. I love the chips that were strategically placed in
about three or four places; that is the standard. “This will help to detect those that may want to play funny game by
shunting the race. It is quite commendable. I also like the great
hospitality and the organisation, they are of required standards. “The fact that there were refreshment at every specific point on the
routes and also the provision of the ambulances are great,’’ he said. Kanu said that contrary to his expectation that Lagos could be a bit
rowdy, his was surprised and impressed to see the decent organisation
put up by the organisers. “I expected to see the kind of rowdiness we have in Lagos, but the
organisers did well to keep it decent taking away the big Molue of the
streets. “I will like to come back for another marathon next time though I
won’t aspire to win it, I am coming for the fun of it and enjoy the
race,’’ he said.