Very recently, the presidential candidate of the APC in the 2019 general
elections, General Muhammadu Buhari (Rtd), flagged off the Kano State
version of his presidential campaigns, and Nigerians witnessed very high
influx of Niger Republic citizens into Kano City, the venue of the
event for the programme. They came in their thousands, led by
two serving state governors in their country. There was an unusually
high traffic between Katsina and Kano States as early as 8am on that
fateful day, courtesy of the mass movement from Maradi in Niger Republic
to Kano City They were in Kano to be part of, and to show their
support for the presidential ambition of President Muhammadu Buhari, one
of the many Nigerians contesting for the presidency of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria for another tranche of four years, beginning 29th
May, 2019. To this I said to myself; what an uncommon show of
love. What an unprecedented support for a presidential candidate of a
sovereign nation by citizens of another sovereign nation, a thing never
heard of in the history of the world. I also wondered, if there
is a place for this development in the laws of our land or in
international law. Unfortunately I am not of the learned profession to
know much of this, but I find it very strange and painfully disturbing
that I find it expedient to ask some pertinent questions, bothering on
not just the propriety or otherwise of the action, but also its legality
and implication for our dear nation: (1) Firstly, how is it the
business  of the people of Niger Republic who becomes the President of
the Federal Republic of Nigeria? As the learned people would say,
“what is their nexus in this matter?” Why are the people of Niger
Republic interested only in Buhari’s Presidency? Why not any of the other presidential candidates?Could there be any pact between the people of Niger Republic and Muhammadu Buhari that Nigerians are not in the know of? (2)
Would this action not amount to interference in the affairs of a
sovereign   Nigeria, to have citizens of Niger Republic make the
election of a Nigerian President their business, to the extent of
participating in the process of making the Nigerian President in 2019? (3)
Assuming a David Cameron, the former British Prime Minister for
instance, was sited somewhere in a Nigerian town where an Atiku Abubakar
Campaign is holding, what would be the reaction of the Buhari
Presidency? This reference has become expedient, given that when the man
(David Cameron) made a simple statement of caution to the Buhari
Presidency over the suspension of the CJN, the Federal Government and
the APC attacked the counsel as “foreign interference” in Nigeria’s
domestic affairs.” How different are the two? (4) How did these multitude of people come into Nigeria in one swoop? Did they come through the border? Did they all have the requisite documents and followed the right channel? (5) Did they return to Niger Republic after the programme or they are still in Nigeria? (6)
Given that political rallies are meant for members of the political
party (s) concerned. I note that the two Niger Republic governors who
led the delegation of their country’s Citizens to the event in Kano,
adorned themselves in APC outfits and regalia, signifying membership of
the APC, a political party in Nigeria. Are the Niger Republic
governors members of the APC, and like the APC governors in Nigeria
would  canvass support for President Muhammadu Buhari in their
respective States in Niger Republic? Could there possibly be an
arrangement for Buhari’s supporters from Niger Republic to vote in the
2019 presidential election (holding in Nigeria)? Could nationals of Niger Republic be part of the Six Million PVC holders declared in Katsina State? Would they have come all the way from Niger Republic to support just the rally and not to vote in the election? If
that number of foreigners can come into Nigeria through a Nigerian
border freely in one day, it means anything, just anything including
getting Nigerian PVCs is possible, and voting in a Nigerian presidential
election would certainly not be a problem. For me, it portends
great danger for the country to have citizens nurse the kinds of feeling
that I nurse over the issue, particularly that I also feel helpless. When
I see that circumstances as grievous as this deployment do not elicit
outright disapproval of fellow citizens, particularly those in positions
of power I begin to check whether something is wrong with me, that I
seem the only one feeling the weight of the ignoble action. Why does every wrong thing seem to become right if it is perpetuated by Buhari? I
am so pained that a t this juncture, I can feel A’isha pain, when she
shouted at an APC public function; “WHERE ARE THE NIGERIAN MEN? INSTEAD
OF STANDING UP TO THEM, YOU GO TO THEM ONE BY ONE LICKING THEIR SHOES”.