By Yetunde Fatungase Abeokuta – The Ogun Government says it will soon begin a de-worming exercise for no fewer than 500,000 children between the ages of five and 14 across the state. The Commissioner for Health, Dr
Babatunde Ipaye, who made the disclosure at a public function in
Abeokuta on Tuesday, added that the exercise would cover 11 local
governments. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)
reports that the event was the Agenda for Social Mobilisation Meeting,
organised by the Ministry of Health, in conjunction with Evidence
Action. Ipaye, who was represented by
the Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Dr Nafiu Aigoro, said the
programme would commence on March 14. He described worms as parasites that
thrive on nutrition from the human intestine, which according to him,
leading to anaemia, stomach ache, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, loss of
appetite and blood in stool. In view of this, he stressed the
need for quick intervention through the de-worming exercise, to ensure
that the children in the state were healthy. The commissioner noted that the
first phase of the exercise taking place in the selected LGAs was due to
the high rate of the parasites in such areas. Ipaye hinted that the second phase would commence before the end of the year. He urged parents and guardians to take advantage of the exercise to de-worm their children and wards. He added that the drugs would be administered to the children free of charge. “Parents are to ensure they bring out their children and wards to benefit in this de-worming exercise. ‘‘It is for our children’s overall good and well-being. And don’t forget, it is free,” he said. The Programme Manager, Evidence
Action, South West Zone, Mr Femi Adepoju, said the group would assist in
the training of teachers and health workers who would partake in the
exercise. He enjoined parents to embrace the exercise saying “It is aimed at ensuring a better life for our children.” (NAN) By NAN The Osun State Commissioner for Health, Dr Temitope Ilori, on Saturday, urged parents… By Olawale Jokotoye Abeokuta - President Muhammadu Buhari, the candidate of the All Progressives Congress… By SundiataPOST, Abuja The Anambra government targets two million children for integrated measles campaign in…