By Funmilayo Okunade Ado-Ekiti – The Deputy Governor of Ekiti State, Chief Bisi Egbeyemi, on Monday expressed optimism that the outcome of the 2019 general elections would not result in violence and the division of Nigeria. Egbeyemi said this in Ado- Ekiti while receiving members of the state
chapter of  Timber Lorry Drivers and Load Association of Nigeria, who
staged a solidarity rally in support of President Muhammadu Buhari’s
second term bid. Egbeyemi expressed confidence that Nigeria will remain a united and
indivisible country after the conduct of the Presidential, National
Assembly, Governorship and State Assembly polls. The deputy governor said that all ethnic groups in Nigeria need one
another and therefore should use the  elections to deepen the country’s
unity. Egbeyemi gave an assurance that Nigeria would enjoy peace before,
during and after the Feb. 16 and March 2 elections while the polls would
be conducted under an atmosphere of peace. The deputy governor urged the people of Ekiti State to vote massively
for the APC to ensure overwhelming victory for Buhari and other
candidates of the party. He said Ekiti State would benefit immensely when the APC controls
government  at federal and state levels, adding that such a scenario
would add value to the lives of the people in all sectors. Egbeyemi urged members of the association to continue their
mobilisation drive across the state to ensure victory for the president
and other APC candidates. “Feb. 16 is the day for Buhari, we want you and all the people of
Ekiti State to vote overwhelmingly for Buhari so that it will be easy
for us to demand whatever we need from the Federal Government in terms
of empowerment, infrastructure and good positions. “We are not opposed to Buhari in Ekiti; Buhari is our man here, so
let us return massive votes for him so that he can remain in office to
continue his good works. “One ethnic group cannot successfully rule the country without the support of other ethnic groups. “Hausas, Igbos, Yorubas and others must all work together on the
unity of this country. We can never be divided by the grace of God,” he
said. Earlier the state chairman of the association, Mr Fidelis Ojo, said
the solidarity rally for the re-election of  Buhari was to ensure the
continuity of his laudable programmess in Ekiti. Ojo said that Ekiti would benefit from the Federal Government projects if Buhari was re-elected back to power. He promised the support of his members for Buhari in Saturday’s presidential poll. (NAN)