By Abiemwense Moru Abuja – Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr Yakubu Dogara, has welcomed the signing into law of the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission Bill by President Muhammadu Buhari. Dogara made the commendation in a statement by his Special Adviser on
Media and Public Affairs, Mr Turaki Hassan, on Tuesday in Abuja. The Bill, now an Act, which was sponsored by the Speaker as part of
efforts of the House of Representatives to create a conducive business
environment for investment, is aimed at developing business and
promoting fair, efficient and competitive markets in the Nigerian
economy. Commenting on the presidential assent to the Bill, Dogara said: “This
is a welcome development because of the huge potential the new
commission holds for the progress of the business sector and development
of the nation’s economy. “This new law, if implemented to the letter, will, in a nutshell,
prohibit restrictive and unfair business practices, promote competition,
prevent monopoly or abuse of dominant market position by any company. “It will protect employees, ensure that consumers are protected and
have access to products made to the highest standards and compensation
for faulty purchases or transactions. “Above all, it will engender innovation as entities doing business in
Nigeria will be forced to compete as against colluding as is presently
the case. “By the establishment of the Competition and Consumer Protection
Tribunal, investors’ confidence will improve because a healthy business
competition will emerge and consumer rights will be strengthened.” The new Act repealed the Consumer Protection Act, and provides for
the establishment of the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection
Commission, which will facilitate access by all citizens to safe
products and protect their consumer rights. Among others, the law stipulates a five-year jail term for
individuals and N50 million for entities who violate the competition law
and a fine not exceeding 10 per cent turnover in the preceding business
year of a defaulting company. For those in breach of consumer rights, it provides for individuals,
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or to payment of fine
not exceeding N10 million or both and in the case of a body corporate,
liable on conviction, to a fine of not less than N100 or 10 per cent of
its turnover in the preceding year, whichever is higher. The speaker, therefore, called on President Buhari to immediately set up the commission. (NAN)