Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Logara/Umuohiagu ward in Ngor Okpala council area of Imo State, Ifeanyi Ozoemena, has reportedly been killed by unknown gunmen. The APC chieftain was killed, on Tuesday night, February 19, shortly after presiding over a meeting of the party in the ward. The party chieftain was killed in his house right before his family members. The said murder of the APC chieftain has reportedly caused fear in the state ahead of the presidential and National Assembly elections. A community leader, Chief Martin Opara, who confirmed the incident, said the killing had caused panic in the state. He urged security agencies to apprehend the killers of the APC chieftain without any delay, noting that the community had never witnessed such political killing “This killing is strange to our community. Report says that he was shot severally in his house until he died,” the community leader said. “We have met with the Eze-in-Council and have sent a delegation to the DPO requesting that the killers should be arrested immediately. “Logara community is known for peace and we won’t jeopardise peace among us. “The deceased finished hosting a meeting of APC members in his ward after which gunmen operating in a jeep came and requested to see him. On sighting him, they shot him severally before they left.” The killing was also reportedly confirmed by the police in the state which stated that officers had evacuated the body of the deceased. The police noted that the gunmen who killed the APC chieftain operated in a SUV jeep. In another news report, the commissioner of police in Akwa Ibom, Bashir Makama, has accused politicians of sponsoring thugs to distort the peace and security of the state during this year’s general elections. Makama made the accusation during a meeting with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and political stakeholders in Uyo, on Tuesday, February 19. He urged the people of the state to report any form of violence perpetrated by thugs in the state before and during the 2019 general elections for prompt action.