By Moses Omorogieva Lagos – The commissioner of police in Lagos State, Mr Zubairu Muazu, has said that Igbo and other ethnic groups in the state are safe to go about their normal businesses. Muazu gave the assurance on Thursday while briefing newsmen on the
update of security situation in the state ahead of the governorship
election of March 9. According to Muazu, one serious issue the command is contending with is
the menace of fake news circulated on social media, on the plan attack
on Igbo traders in Lagos. The commissioner, however, warned those he described as initiators and
distributors of fake news to stop causing unnecessary tension. He said that the command had provided adequate security for all Igbo and other persons in Lagos State. “Let me re-emphasis that Lagos State is peaceful and Lagosians are peace-loving people. “There is no tribe or community under threat in any part of the state. Our patrol and surveillance are intensified. “We have reviewed and redoubled our
strategies to ensure a peaceful conduct of Governorship and State House
Assembly Elections come March 9. ” I called on Lagosians to support
the police to serve them better by being vigilant and report any
suspicious movement or persons to the police. “Let me use this medium to sound a big warning to initiators and
distributors of fake news. We will identify you, isolate you and bring
you to justice. ”To good people of Lagos State, do not just believe everything you see
on the social media, you are free to always verify such information from
us,’’ he said. The CP said he had met with some ethnic groups’ leaders, including the
Igbo, Hausa and Yoruba after the presidential election, adding that
suggestions and observations from the meetings would be used for other
elections. He said that there would be total restriction on the election day,
stressing that no motorcycle or tricycle would be allowed to move as
INEC had engaged vehicles to move materials and officials. (NAN) LAGOS - The Lagos State Government on Thursday said that it would channel its available… By Aisha Cole Lagos - The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) says in its daily publications… By Victor Okoye and Rachel Abujah Abuja - The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on…