By Oboh Linus Lafia – Mrs Juanna Bello, the Chairperson, Nasarawa Coalition of Business and Professional Association (NACOBPA), says the association is committed to improving the state’s business environment. Bello, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Lafia
that NACOBPA was a non-tribal and non-religious association; working
through advocacy to attract investors. She said that the association’s main aim was to improve the business
environment and attract investors into the state, thereby securing the
future of businessmen and women. Bello said the establishment of NACOBPA in seven states in Nigeria
was the brain-child of the Centre for International and Private
Enterprises (CIPE) and the America Chamber of Commerce branch in Lagos. “We are committed to ensuring that the business environment is healthier, safer and more secure for investors to operate. “We are trying to change from the mindset of our business community
from individualistic ways of doing business to collective ways of doing
business; as there is power in unity. “I believe that we can be more relevant and make more impacts if we
start to think as a group; we should not only think profits but
sustainability, so that we can build stronger future for  posterity,’’
Bello said. On the recent gubernatorial debate organised by the association,
Bello said the debate was organised mainly for candidates to present
their blueprints and manifestoes to the electorate. She said that the debate served as a guide and an eye-opener for the
electorate to enable them vote wisely and elect competent leaders. “We called the political parties’ candidates to present their
blueprints and manifestoes; to provide opportunity for the electorate to
vote candidates of their choice to power,’’ the chairperson said. On the recent business survey embarked upon by the association, she
said the survey was one of NACOBPA’s efforts to move Nasarawa business
community forward. Bello said the survey captured some of the challenges facing the
Nasarawa business environments such as security of lives and property,
lack of access to fund and multiple taxation. She said that the survey report would be handed over to the next governor of Nasarawa State.