The PDP chieftain Femi Fani-Kayode has debunked a fake news on social media alleging that he has lost confidence in Atiku’s ability to defeat the ruling party’s presidential candidate Muhammadu Buhari. See his statement below: “I REPEAT there is a fake post which has been spread all over Facebook, Whatssap and Twitter saying that I do not believe that Atiku can win the presidential election. The authors of the fake post also wrote that I said that PDP had made a crucial mistake by fielding Atiku Abubakar and that I said that he could not win in the NW, SW and NE. This is a total fabrication and it is nothing but the worst and most primitive form of fake news. It is designed to encourage and rally the dwindling support base of the ruling APC and to dishearten and sow despondency, despair, discord and division into the ranks of our party the PDP. The whole thing was manufactured, funded, published and spread all over the social media by the Presidency and the numerous Buhari media and support groups. They are planning to rig the election in those three zones and they are attempting to use my name to give credence to their evil plans. For the record I refuted their fake post on my official and verified twitter handle and Facebook page on monday evening when it first surfaced and I challenge anyone to produce the source or evidence of where and when I said or wrote the things that they have falsely attributed to me. There is no doubt in my mind that Atiku Abubakar will not only defeat Buhari in the SW, NW, NE and every other zone but I also know that he will remove his pants. That is what the APC and their desperate army of liars, fabricators and e-rats are so terrified of and that is why they have resorted to such desperate measures of disinformation, propaganda and fake news. No member or supporter of the PDP should take their fake post seriously or allow themselves to be dismayed or disheartened by it. Anything that does not appear on my verified twitter handle or verified Facebook page could not have been written or authored by me. The PDP is firmly on course for winning and, by the grace of God, Atiku Abubakar will be the next President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. All the fake news, fake posts, malicious and malevolent publications, rigging and threats of violence in the world cannot change that”