By Angela Atabo Abuja – Actionaid, a Non-governmental Organisation (NGO) on Thursday in Abuja advocated for enforceable laws on political parties to enhance the increased participation of women and young people in politics. Mr Jaye Gaskiya, Lead Presenter at Actionaid, made the request at a
workshop organised by Actionaid, on “Bench-marking the 2019 Nigerian
Electoral Process ;The Journey so Far Through the Lense of the African
Charter on Democracy ,Elections and Governance(ACDEG)’’. ACDEG is a continental instrument that stipulated guideline on the
conduct of democratic elections and human rights in African Union (AU)
states. Gaskiya said that such enforceable laws were necessary in order to
compel political parties to promote political inclusiveness in Nigeria’s
democracy. “There is need to have legally binding instructions that political
parties must deliberately practise internal democracy and ensure
inclusion of women and youths as candidates. “We must ensure that when political parties’ candidates list arrives
at INEC, before the commission can accept it, it should do a gender
analysis. “The only condition to accept the list which should be part of the
nation’s enforceable laws is that no gender representation is less than
40 per cent and no gender is higher than 60 per cent. “So if INEC can do that, then you will see political parties ensuring
that women become candidates and youths become candidates and Nigeria
would have an inclusive democracy.’’ Gaskiya said that this step needed to be taken because although
Nigeria had the Not-Too-young-To-Run law it did not really empower
youths because it was not enforceable. He said that though the 2019 elections were already around the
corner, women and youths could begin to mobilise to make such demands
ahead of the 2013 elections using the ACDEG an African charter on
democracy. Mr Komlan Messie, Secretary-General, West African Civil Society Forum
(WACSOF) said that there was need for Nigeria to leverage on the
African Charter on Democracy ,Elections and Governance(ACDEG) for free
and credible elections. Messie said that this was because ACDEG was about good governance and
democracy and it was a legal framework that would guarantee Nigerians
that their votes would count. He said that only Togo had submitted its initial report on
implementation on the continent and urged citizens to ensure the full
implementation of ACDEG to strengthen the nation’s electoral process. Earlier ,Country Director ,Actionaid,Ms Ene Obi, said that in January
2007 African Union adopted ACDEG to find solutions Africa’s governance
challenges and to promote consolidated democratic governance and human
rights. Obi, who whose speech was ready by Funmilayo Oyefusi Head, Human
Resource and Organisational Development Actionaid, said that in spite of
the ratification ,implementation of the charter remained a challenge . She said it was for this reason that Actionaid Nigeria mobilised
citizens to build knowledge around ACDEG to ensure that government kept
to its commitment. “ACDEG is a document that seeks to ensure that the will of the people
is respected and given priority in the design of public policy that
reflect a more gender responsive public service’’. She said that it was against this background that Actionaid Nigeria
was bench-marking the 2019 Nigerian electoral process to see how it
conformed with the provisions of ACDEG. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the programme was a Pan
African (PANAF) project to strengthen the role that civil society
groups played in the democratic governance processes of all AU states.
(NAN).