CAPE TOWN – Olympic 400-metres champion Wayde van Niekerk is unsure whether he will defend his title at the World Athletics Championships in Doha in September, instead setting his sights on retaining the gold medal he won in Rio de Janeiro in 2016. Wayde van Niekerk of Van
Niekerk, also the 400m world record holder, has been sidelined for
almost 18 months after a serious knee injury sustained in a charity
touch rugby game in October 2017. It has been a slow road to
recovery for the South African, who recently returned to the track for
the first time to claim the provincial Free State championships title in
a time of 47.28, some 4.25 slower than his best 400m mark. “It
would be nice to be in Doha later in the year but I can’t tell just yet
if I will be there for sure. My main target is the Olympic Games in
(Tokyo) Japan next year and I will be working as hard as I can to make
sure I’m in good shape for that,” Van Niekerk said on Thursday. “It
is something that excites me, but I still have a lot of physical work
to do. Mentally I feel very strong, but I just need to be patient and
allow the physical side to catch up. “I
don’t know when it (knee) will be 100 percent but my mind is set on
doing what I can do‚ doing whatever is expected of me and seeing where
that takes me.” The 26-year-old concedes he battled in the first
200m of his return to competition, but felt more fluid in the second
half of the race. “My first 200 was extremely rusty, I was just
trying to find my feet and my momentum again, but once I got that it
gave me the confidence that I can stay in it for an entire 400-metres. “It
has sparked more motivation and also identified some key areas to be
worked on. No athlete is ever pain free, I just have one I caused
myself. I must just take the knocks and carry on.” Van Niekerk
also backed compatriot Caster Semenya in the 800m double Olympic
champion’s appeal hearing to the Court of Arbitration for Sport against
IAAF regulations that seek to reduce naturally-occurring testosterone in
female athletes. “Caster is super strong,” he said.
“I see it as something that is her personal battle, I believe she will
come out of it stronger. “This situation has been carrying on for a while now and the way she is handling it… she is fighting for women to have their rights and their stand-out day in sports, and I respect her for it.” (Reuters) By Pulse Whoever wants Ghanaian A-List actor and producer, Van Vicker, dead, must be doing… By Pulse Those who think that celebrity marriages do not last should borrow a leaf… ABUJA -  The Nigeria Football and other Sports Supporters Club (NFSSC) on Monday demanded for…