Chimezie Anaso Awka – The National Chairman, All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Dr Victor Oye, has described the Saturday night petrol tanker fire at Amawbia, Awka South Council Area as a `huge disaster’. Oye said this on Sunday when he visited the scene of the accident in Amawbia, for an on-the-spot assessment. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that seven persons were reported dead while 13 vehicles were burnt during the inferno. Oye blamed alleged poor use of roads by vehicle owners for the unfortunate incident. He commiserated with the government and people of Anambra for the accident and attendant losses. “It is a disaster, lives were lost and property worth millions of naira was also lost. “In fact, it is sheer catastrophe, over 40 shops were burnt in this
accident with the wares inside and over nine lives have been lost,
according to the report we received. “Some of them deceased are our brothers. “From what I gathered, the accident was caused by human negligence
and factors on the part of the tanker driver and on the part of people
who park their cars around this place at that time. “I learnt that the driver was struggling to avoid those vehicles and
the roundabout which made the tanker to fall and burst into fire. ‘‘It happened in my community but not just a tragedy for me but for
all of us, the entire Anambra populace, the governor was also affected. ‘‘It is a sad incident for everybody,” he said. Oye said the Anambra Government controlled by his party shall come to
the succour of the affected persons to reduce their sufferings. He warned that such recklessness on the part of drivers would no longer be condoned. “The pro-activeness of the governor was what saved the Governor’s
Lodge; if a water tanker was not stationed there the entire Governor’s
Lodge would have been gutted. “Government will descend on those people who use our roads
carelessly; we will not tolerate such things any longer; it affected men
and women from diverse tribes and religions. ‘‘It has nothing to do with politics, it is fate in action. “APGA Government is a government that shows empathy; we are going to
look at what happened holistically and see how affected people will be
assisted. “We regret what has happened, government will come to the aid of
those that are affected and Gov. Willie Obiano has said that,” he said