That Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State was the first to oppose the
imeobi Ohanaeze decision in endorsing the PDP ticket of Atiku and Mr
Peter Obi is to say the least, disgusting, shameful and disgraceful. Apart
from portraying him as an ingrate and saboteur of the Igbo cause, it
has exposed the Igbo saying that somebody whose house is on fire has
decided to pursue rats instead of salvaging the ruins of the fire. How
else does one justify the above assertion other than the fact that
after the financial procurement of his second tenure at great attack on
the fiscal position of the state having frittered away all the dollar
savings and investments handed over to him by his benefactor and
predecessor, the state has been left prostrate while governance has gone
on holiday and aggressive development put in abeyance since then. In
Anambra today, instead of Obiano taking up development strides so as to
etch his name in the people’s memory with legacy projects after his
exit, he has decided to embark on wild binge and goose chase just to
undo Mr Peter Obi as if both of them are competing. The unholy
romance with the Muhammed Buhari-led APC administration where it was
alleged that he (Obiano) gave financial support running into billions of
naira for Buhari’s comeback will boomerang in his face sooner or later. The
multiplier effect of the alleged hefty financial commitment to Buhari’s
reelection campaign is the ugly situation we are witnessing presently
in different parts of the state where all manner of revenue touts have
been unleashed on the hapless citizens. Even though government
has continued to disown the various revenue touts and agents and the
multiple taxation ongoing in the state, even the blind can decipher that
there is no smoke without fire. What is a known fact is that those
people are working for government and are known to government too.   If
it is to be on the contrary, the same government would have flushed them
away with immediate effect. Today in Anambra, traders, keke
riders, commercial bus drivers, truck owners and drivers, tipper
drivers, artisans and other classes of individual are feeling the heat
of unbridled chase of revenue by government agents. Visiting
traders from other parts of the state are crying daily without help as
they are extorted with brute force from their point of purchase, routes
of delivery till they enter the motor park and return to their base. Artisans
are crying, keke drivers go home practically empty handed as their
daily struggles ends up in the hands of government revenue touts. The
list of victims and casualties (including those left with broken heads
on putting up  slight resistance) are endless and there is no respite in
sight. While the government continues its wild goose chase,
aggressive development projects in the state have become a thing of the
past as abandoned projects littered every nooks and crannies of the
state. All the earth moving equipments including hired and
dilapidated ones deployed across various communities in Anambra State
have been recalled while nothing is happening in most of the project
sites. The story is the same from Awada to Ugwuagba, Onitsha to
Nise, Urum to Anam among others. The roads flagged off behind Iba Pope
Awada which the Governor promised completion in the sacred altar of the
Catholic Church the day he visited has remained abandoned.   Same with
the one near St James Anglican Church also in Awada where there is
imminent danger of building collapse in the area as deep gullies caused
by rain and flood from the abandoned road has eaten deep into nearby
buildings. It is the same story for other roads connecting Holy
Trinity Catholic Church, Awada where he also declared that all the roads
in the area have been awarded just awaiting the rains to subside for
construction to start. He said this again on the altar last year when he
visited with his wife for the blessing of the chapel they built in the
name of her daughter , Gechi, for the parish.  Right now, the access
road linking the parish with the tarred road along 2nd gate Army
barracks and Minaj road known as Oba Avenue/ Solar Lawrence Road behind
the Army Barracks is at the verge of cutting into two and teeming
residents in the area getting trapped. Oduke layout where
constant flooding has killed at least 12 people and destroyed properties
worth over N500million has also been promises without fulfilling. Since
November 3rd 2018 where the last two victims, a widow, Oluchi Nwafor
and a man, Mr Okafor died in the flood, the governor has not deemed it
fit to even pay a visit to the area or send a representative despite
notifications by the landlords in the area. Now, the non conduct
of local government elections by the Obiano administration and the
crippling of local government administrative system have made it
impossible for local councils to even do minimal road grading at
intervals. Despite the fact that the state receives an average of
N2.5 billion as local government financial allocations monthly, there
is nothing to show that anything is happening in the 21 local councils
instead, peanuts are given to the illegal endless transition council
chairmen to run their offices monthly. The charade called primary
elections conducted by APGA under Obiano as BOT Chairman is the one
that sounded the death knell for this administration.  Apart from
desecrating and denigrating the legacies of the late Igbo leader, Dim
Chukwuemeka Ojukwu and also humiliating his dear wife, Iyom Bianca
Ojukwu, the heist called APGA primaries where hundreds were fleeced of
their hard earned money and at the end of the day denied party tickets
in abracadabra way and brute force will continue to haunt the
administration. The conclusion now is that the larger bulk of the
electorates in Anambra have decided to vote against APGA in all
elective posts come February 16 and March 2nd. The protest vote is as
result of the bastardised primaries, putting good governance in abeyance
in Anambra presently, the harassment of the citizenry by government
revenue thugs among others. But far from these anomalies, the
greater number of Anambra electorates just like the entire larger number
of Igbo people are united in their decision that when it comes to the
Presidential election, the real nkea bu nke anyi is the vote for ATIKU
and OBI of the PDP. They are of the view that 30 years after the
Shagari and Ekwueme administration were sacked by the same Buhari who is
now seeking re-election as a civilian president, no other opportunity
presents a better platform for the Igbo to get to the mainstream
politics in Nigeria than the Atiku/ Obi ticket. It will also amount to
stating the obvious if I begin to mention also the sterling qualities
Obi is bringing to the table or to go back to his positive scorecards
when he was Governor. For Obiano to work against this opportunity
and tilt towards the Buhari presidency that has tacitly alienated the
Igbo from being part of the federal republic of Nigeria is a deadly
mission. No matter whatever becomes the outcome of the 2019
presidential election, posterity will record the various roles each
gladiator, stakeholder or persons played. Some by their disposition and
conducts will etch their name into the Hall of Fame while others will
eternally put their name into the Hall of Shame. Pity to those who will
belong to this latter category. •Comrade Attah, writer and public relations practitioner is the chairman, Civil Liberties Organisation, South East Zone. 