By Rabiu Sani Maiduguri – Gov. Kashim Shettima of Borno, on Tuesday promised to work with colleagues of like minds at the National Assembly to ensure proactive representation of the people of the state. Shettima in a special broadcast to the people of the state, applauded
the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari and other candidates of the
All Progressive Congress (APC) in the Saturday’s Presidential and
National Assembly election in the state. He said that he and other elected members of the national assembly
would work to ensure effective representation and promote the interest
of the people of the state in the 9th National Assembly. “My first gratitude is to everyone who took part in last Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections. “I particularly commend all those who went to the polling units and
exercise their democratic rights by voting candidates of their choices. “I thank all voters regardless of who they voted for; I salute all
those who worked hard in making it possible for citizens to exercise
their voting rights in Borno State. “On behalf of our party; the All Progressives Congress (APC), I will
like to convey our deepest gratitude to all citizens who voted for our
candidate, President Muhammadu Buhari. “What was evident from the results declared was that votes for President Buhari were across party lines. “I am sure that these votes once again reaffirm our confidence in the
President, and they strengthen our hope and believe that his Presidency
will continue its determined efforts to bring the Boko Haram crisis to
the end we desperately wish to see,” Shettima said. Shettima, who was elected senator in the election, called on APC
supporters to work hard to ensure that it’s gubernatorial flag bearer,
Prof. Babagana Zulum and 28 state Assembly candidates win the March 9
election. He also called on the electorate to safeguard their Permanent Voters
Cards (PVC) and vote for the APC, to enable the party sweep the polls in
the upcoming election in the state. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that INEC had declared three
senatorial and 10 House of Representatives’ candidates of the APC
winners in the Saturday’s National Assembly election. Shettima was elected to represent Borno Central district while former
Senate Leader, Ali Ndume and Habu Kyari were re-elected to represent
Borno South and North Senatorial districts, respectively. (NAN) By SundiataPOST, Abuja The Minister of Information, Mr Labaran Maku, on Saturday, urged political leaders… HELEN ZILLE, the leader of the Democratic Alliance (DA), South Africa’s main opposition party, was… 