Everywhere you turn in Nigeria, there’s a drama of the
absurd to watch. The issue of the national minimum wage is one of them.
An assembly of former and current leaders of the country (the Council
of State) has prescribed N27,000 while the House of Representatives has
“debated” and passed N30,000 as minimum wage (MW). All have been
playing politics, it seems. And leaders of organised labour are the
greater politicians: their motive is not to achieve better conditions of
service for Nigerian workers or the wellbeing of the common man. The
whole MW affair is a fraud, and, like all frauds, it is meant to cause
trouble. Otherwise, I don’t understand why a piece of legislation that
cost several months of “hard work” and incredible billions of naira has
become non-implementable: many state governments that accepted to pay
N18,000 about eight years ago have yet to comply, and now a higher
amount is being imposed on them.  They can’t pay until the revenue
allocation formula is altered in their favour. Labour could go on
indefinite strike, if it likes! The noise about MW has become
deafening. Somebody should call the noisemakers to order. In fact, they
have already put all of us in trouble. Landlords, transport operators
and traders have been listening to the announcements with keener
interest. Prices of goods and services have been going up, but the real
trouble will come when the implementation of the so-called MW begins. More
worrying is that government employees make up less than 10% of Nigerian
workers. For now, nobody’s attention is on the private sector – there
will be no opportunity to negotiate with private-sector employers
anyway. So, those that are outside the civil/public service (90%) have
no hope of earning the MW, though all of us go to the same markets. The
truth is that, in the informal sector of the economy, many self-employed
people and their employees earn less than N18,000 per month. When the
new MW comes into effect, these underemployed workers may choose between
becoming poorer and becoming jobless; there will be no Labour Congress
to negotiate on their behalf. And we have not even mentioned the
unemployed – some 80million school leavers and unskilled labourers who
are still roaming the streets or filling forms at the Civil Service
Commission in search of non-existent jobs. It might be easy to
implement the MW as soon as the naira gets devalued again. It’s N360 to
the dollar now, thanks to interventions by the Central Bank with
billions of dollars so far. When the naira is floated, the exchange rate
is likely to hit N1,000 to the dollar. Who will be benefitting from the
MW when a loaf of bread will cost N1,000? By the time some global
financial institutions finish with Nigeria, N50,000 would not be able to
purchase a bag of rice. The myopic labour leaders had better start
negotiating for N1million as MW from 2021! In any case, there are
many ways to kill a rat. The federal and state governments can decide
to pay the MW now and still get by. They could sack 80% of their workers
almost immediately. Under Obasanjo, it was “right-sizing” or downsizing
that eliminated over 120,000 jobs. Those who earn obscene salaries and
allowances in the NNPC, CBN, NDIC, and as lawmakers or other political
appointees might endure a salary cut. Labour might oppose mass
retrenchment but it can’t prevent government from laying off all those
that have violated the Civil Service Rules: “evil” servants that lied
under oath — those that falsified their age or their certificate. If
all the civil servants in Nigeria were subjected to MRI tests, I’m sure
it would be discovered that 80% lied about their age. Indolence, fraud
and redundancy could also be given as reasons for sacking many. Stories
about missing files, “Oga no dey” and “Madam is not on seat” would end
when professionals take over the civil service. Our civil/public
servants have been enjoying a form of social security scheme, that is,
they’ve been getting paid for not doing any work. All of us deserve to
enjoy the scheme, however. Were the government and labour leaders
sincere, they would have reduced the MW to N15,000 and then accommodated
more people – the unemployed, the unemployable, the physically and
mentally challenged, the elderly and the indigent. After all, everything
in Nigeria is about sharing the commonweal. Each of the lawmakers that
passed the MW bill, for instance, earns a minimum of N15million monthly
for doing nothing. Today we have 40-something ministers, each with
special advisers, senior special assistants and personal advisers.
Former, current and future “militants” in the Niger Delta are earning
N60,000 monthly under an “amnesty” programme; and some opinion leaders
are asking that the same be extended to Boko Haram members in the north.
What a country! No other nation, I presume, can withstand such
deadly assaults. I started hearing about the “national cake” while I was
a boy in primary school over 45 years ago. That “cake” has yet to
finish, even though the aim of everybody – Nigerians and foreigners –
has been to get a piece of it since then. Nobody bothers to bake the
cake. And that reminds me of a Freudian slip committed by then head of
state General Yakubu Gowon in 1974: “Nigeria’s problem is not money but
what to do with money.” That we’ve endured all deadly assaults to the
treasury is proof that this cake is inexhaustible indeed. Over
the years Gowon has struggled to give the correct interpretation of that
statement. But he need not deny anything. It was the naked truth put
into his mouth perhaps by an unseen voice. The author of a novel I read
18 years ago – I’ve forgotten his name but he was a lecturer at the
University of Nigeria – lends Gowon support. He writes something like
this: “Nobody works in Nigeria. Everybody is just struggling to get a
share of the oil wealth of the country…” Little wonder General
Ibrahim Babangida, as military president, once expressed surprise that
the Nigerian economy had not collapsed. Twenty-seven years after that
statement, Nigeria remains more than a miracle in progress. But never
far away is a reminder of our wastefulness and corruption: the existence
of too many poor people in a very rich nation. Labour’s
agitation should be for good governance that has eluded this country.
Ironically, civil servants have been the accomplices of politicians that
have been looting public funds. Some own estates and pay their
children’s fees in hard currency in America and England. Such evil
“servants” don’t really need the minimum wage. *Not Minister Adamu’s Business Every
minister of education in the last 15 years or so has issued statements
condemning the existence of “fake” or “illegal” universities in the
country. But rather than disappear, the “illegal” universities have
multiplied. The current education minister, Mr Adamu Adamu, has just
joined the chorus. He has warned that graduates from those varsities
would be holding empty papers as certificates and wouldn’t be eligible
for the NYSC or jobs. Where there is a law, it should be obeyed or
enforced.  But some laws are not enforceable: the warning to avoid
non-accredited primary and secondary schools has always been given, yet
the majority of schools in Lagos, Abuja and other big cities today are
not accredited. The number of “fake” universities is equally huge now –
it perhaps exceeds that of “genuine” federal and state varsities put
together. Many varsities, polytechnics and colleges of education
are labelled “illegal” or “fake” because they have not been validated by
the National Universities Commission (NUC) or its equivalent.  Maybe
their promoters have not paid the right fees! NUC’s interest is not in
the quality of education students receive there. If it were not so, not
even the “legal” or accredited tertiary institutions would still be
standing. It might be necessary to relax the law as it pertains
to setting up private schools. Let everyone who can design curricula and
hire appropriate teachers be allowed to do so. Maybe they will be able
to run the educational institutions we need now – schools that will
enable their students to acquire skills needed by employers. The wrong
schools won’t survive because they won’t have students. I believe in the
efficacy of market forces. Minister Adamu spoke as if anybody
worries about the NYSC anymore. And where are the jobs to be picked by
graduates from the legal universities anyway?  He and the government he
represents should simply advise young people to avoid unaccredited
institutions. But he should never unleash security operatives or EFCC on
the schools. Let the market be the judge. Whether one would be excluded
from the NYSC or government jobs shouldn’t be Adamu’s business. It is
the business of those who choose to attend only approved varsities to
seek information from JAMB, NUC and other regulators. Proliferation
of tertiary schools is inevitable. Less than 20% of 1.6million UTME
candidates secure admission each year, and Adamu has yet to offer the
rest (about 1.3million young people) valuable advice.  He has yet to
improve his own “legal” universities one bit. Otherwise, ASUU wouldn’t
be on strike for a half of every academic year, and the accredited
varsities wouldn’t be finding illiterates and criminals “worthy in
character and learning” at graduation ceremonies every year. •Nwamu, book editor and writer, is the CEO of Eyeway.ng. +234-8054100220 (SMS/WhatsApp only) 