By Muhammad Nasir Bashir Dutse, – The Jigawa Command of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has embarked on constant raid of drug peddlers’ hideouts across the state. The NDLEA Commandant in the state, Josephine Obi, made this known in Dutse on Saturday. Obi said the raids were being carried out by men of the command at
various places suspected to be hideouts of drug peddlers in all the 27
local government areas of the state. She explained that the operation, aimed to avoid incidences of
violence and crimes during the 2019 General Elections, began in January
2019. “The NDLEA Jigawa State command has intensified efforts to curtail
the trafficking and use of both conventional and unconventional drug
substances in order to avoid incidences of violence and crimes in the
countdown to the 2019 general elections. “We are doing this through public enlightenment, increased patrols,
surveillance and the dislodgement of known drug joints across the state. “These special operations began in January, 2019 and so far, we’ve
dislodged many joints across the state,’’ Obi said in a statement. The commandant said that so far, 64 suspects, including a female,
were arrested and 17.55 kilograms of various drugs and substances were
seized. According to her, the seized items include: Cannabis Sativa,
Tramadol, Exol, Dapsol, Diazepam, Codeine, Rubber Solution and Formalin,
popularly known as Suck and Die. Obi, however, said 61 of the suspects were found to be users and
were, therefore, counselled and released, while the rest were dealers
and would be charged to court. “Therefore we call on all and sundry to be very security conscious
this time and avoid unnecessary gatherings, especially where drugs are
being distributed and sold, as violence and crime will also most likely
erupt from such places. “Our hotline is 09026566188 and our email is jigawacommand@yahoo.com.
We urge the public to give us timely, accurate and relevant information
to assist us in securing the environment and the people. “The special operations are still ongoing, ‘’ she said.