ABUJA (Sundiata Postling) – Ahead of the nation’s scheduled general
elections beginning from February 16, the Goodluck Jonathan Foundation
is bringing together stakeholders from all over Africa for a one-day
conference to discuss ways of preventing election-related violence on
the continent. The conference which theme is ‘Peaceful Elections
and National Development’ will be chaired by Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar,
former head of state and chairman of the National Peace Committee. It is
scheduled to take place at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel in Abuja on
February 7, 2019. In a statement issued in Abuja, the Acting
Director-General of the Foundation Mr. David Akuta explained that the
programme is in line with GJF’s mission of striving to consolidate
democracy and peaceful political transitions in Africa. According to
him, participants would be discussing the measures that would bring
about peaceful conduct of 2019 elections in Nigeria and other African
countries. He noted that eminent personalities like Bishop
Hassan Kukah, Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese and Convener National
Peace Committee of Nigeria, Professor Al-Hassan Conteh, Liberia
Ambassador to the Federal Republic of Nigeria as well as Mr. Fidele
Sarassoro, Chief of Staff to the President of Cote d’Ivoire will serve
as the key speakers at the event. Mr. Akuta stressed that the
conference is necessary because many African countries are due for
general and legislative elections in 2019, adding it would seek to
proffer useful propositions in the effort to find solutions to the
crisis that often characterize political transitions in Africa. He
said further: “Consistent with the mandate of the Foundation and
building on the political philosophy of its Founder, His Excellency Dr.
Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, participants are expected to bring forth ideas
on how to ensure peaceful conduct of 2019 elections and resolution of
disputes/conflicts that may threaten peace, security and stability of
the nation, thus leading to peaceful transition outcomes. “Participants
are drawn from a cross-section of relevant stakeholders, which include
former Heads of State and Government, crisis management experts,
diplomatic corps, international development partners, political parties,
traditional institutions, security agencies, civil society
organisations, academia, Independent Electoral Commission (INEC), youth
and women groups, trade unions and the media.”