By Oluwafunke Ishola Lagos – The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has urged the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) to evolve effective communication and engagement mechanism with taxpayers to sustain economic growth. Mr Muda Yusuf, Director-General of LCCI, made the appeal in an
interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in Lagos. Yusuf was reacting to FIRS’s directive to banks to lift lien on tax defaulters’ bank accounts for 30 days. A tax lien is a legal claim by a government entity against a tax defaulter’s assets. NAN reports that some corporate bodies complained of freezing and
debiting of their bank accounts by FIRS through appointed banks on
grounds of tax default. The FIRS, on Feb.15, wrote to banks’ managing directors to unfreeze bank accounts of the affected tax defaulters. It said the directive was issued because of the large number of
taxpayers that besieged its offices in their bids to regularise their
tax positions, and the inconveniences they were going through. Yusuf said that imposing a tax lien should be a last resort of FIRS
to force businesses to pay taxes, adding that tax administration should
be consistent with the principles of equity, fairness, legality,
accountability and due process. “Taxpayers should be given ample opportunity to defend their
positions on tax matters before a lien is placed on their bank accounts. “Some companies’ accounts are frozen in error because there is no
proper engagement, documentation or communication with the taxpayers,”
he said. He urged the FIRS to exercise restraint in the adoption of this tax
revenue recovery strategy because of its grave implications for
investors, financial inclusion and the economy. Also, Mr Taiwo Oyedele, Tax Leader, PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC),
West Africa, said the substitution power granted FIRS under the relevant
laws did not support freezing of bank accounts in the manner done by
the service. “For most of the companies affected, FIRS did not send an assessment
to them; they only got to know about it when they got to the banks and
discovered that their accounts had been frozen. “The power granted to tax authority under the various laws is to be
exercised strictly under specific conditions; it  does not confer the
right on FIRS or any tax authority to forcefully collect taxes that are
under dispute or arbitrary tax assessments. “An assessment is undisputed where it results from a self-assessment
by the taxpayer or where the taxpayer has specifically agreed to the
assessment,” he said. Oyedele said that the power conferred on FIRS must be exercised with
caution and in accordance with the law to avoid negative impact on the
business environment and ease of paying taxes. He urged taxpayers to attend promptly to all tax matters including
assessments and keeping appropriate records of  tax affairs, saying that
days of tax neglect without consequences were over.