Lagos – The African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) has appointed Humphrey Nwugo as Regional Chief Operating Officer for its Harare-based Southern Africa Regional Office. Mr Obi Emekekwue, Director and Global Head of Communications and
Events Management in Afreximbank, said this in a statement on Monday in
Lagos. Emekekwue said Nwugo would be responsible for driving Afreximbank’s
business development activities in trade projects and export development
finance at the regional level in Southern Africa. According to him, his role includes managing the bank’s operations in
Angola, Botswana, Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique,
Namibia, Seychelles, South Africa, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Before his appointment, he was Senior Manager, Syndications, at the
bank’s headquarters in Cairo. He joined the bank in January 2010 as
Manager, Banking Operations. He said Nwugo had previously served at Intercontinental Bank Plc;
Lagos, as Deputy Manager/Head, Financial Advisory, Corporate Finance
Department, from 2007 to 2009. “He was also Senior Assistant Manager, Real Estate Finance,
Agriculture and Export Finance, Mortgage and Consumer Credit, from 2003
to 2007 at Zenith Bank Plc; Lagos. Mr. Nwugo also worked, as Assistant Banking Officer, Corporate
Finance, at Citizens International Bank Limited, Lagos, from 2000 to
2003. The new Regional Chief Operating Officer received his MBA from the
University of Leicester in the United Kingdom and a Bachelor of Science
in accounting from the University of Calabar, Nigeria. He is a member of the Chartered Management Institute, United Kingdom,
and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria. He is also an
Associate Chartered Accountant. Afreximbank is the foremost pan-African multilateral financial
institution devoted to financing and promoting intra- and extra-African
trade. The bank was established in October 1993 by African governments,
African private and institutional investors, and non-African investors Since 1994, it has approved more than $67 billion in credit facilities for African businesses, including $7.2 billion in 2018. Afreximbank has a total asset of $11.9 billion as at Dec. 31, 2017 and is rated BBB+ (GCR), Baa1 (Moody’s), and BBB- (Fitch).