The evil things people do ostensibly to make money have continued to
multiply in this country. Everyone should be worried about young people,
especially those from the south-east and south-south of Nigeria. Criminals
of all kinds will forever stand condemned:  cybercriminals who steal
women’s pants or turn ritual murderers at the prompting of an evil
spiritualist; boys who rape grandmothers and great-grandmothers to
satisfy the condition for a money-making ritual; armed robbers, hired
killers, kidnappers, terrorists, and thieves. I attribute this
explosion in crime partly to those I often refer to as the original 419
fraudsters. They are the major source of all crimes, and they have
refused to die out. 419 is not a recent phenomenon, as many erroneously
believe. In every generation, from time immemorial, there have been
fraudsters that hide behind religion to steal, rape and kill fellow
human beings. Every tribe has a name for such people. In Igbo
they are generally called dibia. But they are different from herbalists –
those who prepare medicines with leaves, roots and barks of trees. There
are species of dibia whose names in English are not familiar: Some
foretell the future for a fee (fortune tellers? seers? prophets?). Some
make sacrifices on behalf of their victims (diviners? occult priests?).
Some claim to cure all ailments by incantation or strange concoctions
(spiritual healers? magicians?) Whatever names they are called,
they are the original 419ers – the root of all crimes, people who make
money off the fears of the ignorant. Some of them were, perhaps, the
founders of several religious sects that dot our neighbourhoods today. 
Definitely, they constitute the membership of all secret societies – the
fly-by-night bats, the witches and wizards, the great pythons that turn
human beings during the day to decide the fate of nations! The
419ers will not abandon their trade because it’s profitable during hard
times. I once lived in the same neighbourhood with a family whose
business was barely surviving. Suddenly, the man’s wife converted their
shop to a “prayer house”, and, within a few months, the family was
swimming in money. Among her clients were AIDS and cancer patients. She
could “reveal” the sources of all ailments: a mother-in-law who poisoned
her grandchild’s food, a brother who left a charm on the farm, a child
witch or ogbanje who was born to die young. There was always a crowd
inside and outside the shop every evening. Like hard drugs, such
419ers are the catalysts for many crimes that bedevil Nigeria today.
Armed robbers and political thugs constantly seek out dibia to get
“bulletproof” into their blood or skin. They assume that, with the
“bulletproof” or odeshi bought for as much as N50, 000, they would
become immune to bullets from soldiers and policemen. Several corpses of
robbers killed in the south-east have been found with odeshi marks. Jobless
and frustrated young men go into crime because they are emboldened by
drugs and charms. I say so because few people would waste human blood
and still retain their sanity. It takes madness for a human being to
hunt for fellow human beings. Remove all dibia and hemp or cocaine from
the country today and three-quarters of armed robbery and assassination
cases would disappear. But who would dare to attack Nigerian
crimes at their roots? Our security operatives are always chasing
shadows, leaving the substance untouched. There is hardly any Nigerian
community or street where hemp is not consumed. And the sellers are
known. Even some security agents patronise them. NDLEA has offices
nationwide, yet its men don’t see hemp farms everywhere or those
destroying kids with the drug in almost every hamlet. Similarly,
secret cults are everywhere, not just on university campuses. Though the
Nigerian constitution outlaws all secret societies, we have seldom
witnessed a raid on any. The noise made about Okija shrine a few years
ago has since died down; many other towns in Igbo-land have more or less
“powerful” shrines that still harbour human skulls. Are the security
agents not aware of this? Or are they also afraid? The continued
existence of these fetishes more than 150 years after the coming of
western education and civilisation is an indication of the black man’s
stupidity. Could it be responsible for our lagging in science and
technology? The white man engages in “wizardry” in order to make
aircraft, television, computer and electricity that make life
comfortable; the black man’s witchcraft enables him to kill and destroy. Even
when there is an opportunity to put charms to good uses, our leaders
and their law enforcement agents bungle it.  Eighteen years ago, for
instance, the Bakassi Boys of the south-east kept criminals at bay by
murdering confessed criminals at public places. Soon, there was uproar
against the “crude method” of fighting crimes and Bakassi was
dismantled. The criminals have returned with vengeance, leading to the
era of kidnappers, suicide bombers and rapists. Had Bakassi been
replicated in the south-west (OPC is there but is not quite like
Bakassi) and in the north, maybe the armed robbers, terrorists and
kidnappers of today would have been busy on their farms. Likely, all the
security challenges we are facing today would never have reared their
ugly heads. I regard Bakassi as a good crime-fighting outfit, but
not because of the charms it allegedly used to detect criminals. I know
the “charm” was actually the confidential information they received
from people. They confirmed the information they received before moving
against the criminals who often confessed before they were butchered at
marketplaces or in the streets. In those days, people of
questionable character avoided returning to the south-east. Today, it’s
the upright people that avoid their homelands in the east for fear of
kidnappers. Even at Christmas, many Igbo people now choose to live
virtually in exile. Criminals may have won a battle that started a
long time ago. By destroying the country’s education system, they
ensured that morality was no longer taught in schools. Then, gradually,
certain crimes (including cheating at exams and election rigging) had to
be accepted as normal. People of questionable character – who cheated
to pass their exams – became teachers! In today’s Nigeria,
thieves and robbers are celebrated – and decorated with national honours
and chieftaincy titles. The new generations have been taught that hard
work and honesty don’t pay. The outcome of all this is what we are
seeing today. And the worst is yet to come. Little wonder somebody said,
“If education is expensive, try ignorance.” Truly, ignorance is very
costly. I pity my compatriots. •Nwamu, book editor and writer, is the CEO of Eyeway.ng. +234-8054100220 (SMS/WhatsApp only)