LAGOS (Sundiata Post) – The Director General of the Nigerian Maritime
Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Peterside, has
stated that collaboration among relevant agencies and professional
bodies remains the sin qua non for the development of an effective
transportation sector in Nigeria, stressing that this is a basic
condition for economic development. This position was corroborated by
Professor Pat Utomi, who also emphasised the need for strong
transportation infrastructure. Peterside spoke in Lagos in a
goodwill message at the investiture ceremony for Dr. Bashir Jamoh, the
newly elected President of the Chartered Institute of Transport
Administration in Nigeria (CIoTA), and the inauguration of CIoTA’s
National Executive Council and Governing Council. He said NIMASA was
committed to the actualisation of a robust transportation sector in the
country. The DG, who was represented by the Executive Director,
Maritime Labour and Cabotage Services, Mr. Gambo Ahmed, said the Agency
will continue to work with professionals in the transportation industry
to make the sector more viable and globally competitive. He applauded
the election of Jamoh, who is also NIMASA’s Executive Director, Finance
and Administration, as President of CIoTA. Dakuku expressed the
readiness of the Agency to work with the institute and other relevant
bodies to realise a viable transportation sector, which will in-turn aid
economic growth and development. “In NIMASA, we have adopted
collaboration as a means to achieving our mandates, because we know we
cannot do it alone. The transport sector is too large, hence the need
for concerted efforts, through partnerships, cannot be overstated, as
this is the only way we can compete favourably with other nations in the
globe,” the DG said. Professor Pat Utomi delivered the keynote
address at the occasion, with the theme, “Ensuring Competitiveness and
Attractiveness in the Nigerian Transportation Sector – The Role of
Professional Bodies.” Utomi said in his paper that infrastructure and
solid institutions were key to resolution of the challenges facing the
transportation sector, saying the solution lies with professionals in
the sector. He noted that the economy depended solely on the
transportation sector for growth and survival and charged the newly
elected executives to come up with globally acceptable positions, which
they should present to those in authority to move the transportation
sector forward. While bemoaning the gridlock in the Apapa area
of Lagos, Utomi called on the professionals to work with the government
in ensuring that intermodal transportation was achieved, as it will also
help the economy to develop. In his acceptance speech, the newly
elected President of CIoTA stated that there was a symbiotic
relationship between transportation and life. “No matter where you come
from, you must use one means of transportation or another”, he said. Jamoh
said the institute was created to augment government’s efforts by
proffering possible solutions to the challenges facing the
transportation sector in Nigeria. He promised that CIoTA will work with
relevant bodies and associations to ensure the realisation of an
efficient transportation sector. Jamoh also said the institute
will in the next few months come up with some programmes and also create
a platform where all transport-related bodies would come together to
brainstorm and share ideas with the relevant authorities for the
development of the sector. In attendance at the event were
Chairman, Board of Trustees of CIoTA Nigeria, HRM Alaiyeluwa Oba Rafiu
Babatunde Balogun, Adetoyose Ejalonibu II, Elejinrin of Ejinrin Land,
Lagos State; Chief Adebayo Sarumi; and Otunba Kunle Folarin, among other
notable stakeholders in the transportation sector. CIoTA was established in Nigeria in 1982, as an affiliate of the Institute of Transport in the United Kingdom.