By Abiodun Esan Ilorin – A former governorship aspirant in the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara, Alhaji Yakubu Gobir has donated a building to be used as the party’s secretariat in Ilorin. Gobir, who is the grand patron of Buhari campaign organisation in Kwara made the donation on Saturday at a ceremony at the new party secretariat on N0 5, Asa Street, Off Admiralty, GRA, Ilorin. The APC chieftain also donated 100 vehicles branded with Buhari pictures. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the new APC State secretariat was commissioned by the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed and assisted by party chieftains. Gobir, speaking at the commissioning said he was moved to provide befitting secretariat for the party after the governorship primaries. He said there was the need for the executive of APC to have good offices and for the members to have a good meeting point. According to Gobir, he has put the incident of the governorship primaries behind him after the emergence of Alhaji Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq as the candidate of the party. He therefore called on all APC members and supporters to also forget the past and work assiduously for the success of their candidates in the elections. Gobir appealed to the youth to shun all forms of violence during the elections, saying that the support of everybody would make APC triumph. State chairman of the party, Hon Bashir Bolarinwa commended Gobir for the donation of the secretariat and the vehicles. Bolarinwa, who said the issue of secretariat has been a thing of concern, described the new secretariat as a befitting one. He appealed to all members of the party to return to their polling units and garner votes for the party and all its candidates. “All of us must work tirelessly for the success of all APC candidates right from the President to national assembly and governorship and House of Assembly. NAN reports that the occasion was attended by APC chieftains who include Akogun Iyiola Oyedepo, Dr Hezekiah Oyedepo, Dr Amuda Aluko, Dr Farida Dankaka and Mr Musibau Esinrogunjo (NAN)