By Mustapha Yauri Abuja – The Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, has inaugurated Inter-Ministerial Committee on the establishment of the National Obstetric Fistula Centres in Nigeria towards ensuring the reduction of Obstetric Fistula cases. Mrs Boade Akinola, Director, Media and Public Relations of the
Ministry made this known in a statement issued on Tuesday in Abuja. Akinola said the Federal Government had designated three (3)
facilities located in Kaduna, Bauchi and Ebonyi States as National
Obstetric Fistula centres for prevention, treatment, training and
research. She quoted Adewole as saying that the National Centres were expected
to provide technical backstopping as well as act as referral centres to
the several health facilities where fistula cases were diagnosed in the
six geopolitical zones. “To this end, new centres would be located in Adamawa, Edo, Niger,
Osun and Oyo states; with Oyo State site serving as a Regional centre. ‘’The prevention and treatment of obstetric fistula was a priority of the Federal Government. “Consequently, the establishment of more Obstetric Fistula Centres
demonstrate government’s commitment to the improvement of the maternal
and reproductive health indices,” he said. The minister said government was working relentlessly to ensure
availability of functional Primary Health Care centres, skilled birth
attendants, as some of the preventive measures against obstetric
fistula. According to Adewole, government would also ensure adequate supply of
essential maternal health commodities for the provision of quality
antenatal care, safe delivery and postnatal care for women and children. The minister urged the committee to come up with recommendations,
strategies, interventions and roll-out plans for the establishment of
the centres in addition to facilitating funding for the projects. The Committee’s Chairman, Mr Abdulaziz Abudullahi, assured that the
committee would do its best in achieving the terms of reference and duly
submit its report on time. Abdullahi, who is also the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, also
pledged that the committee would work assiduously to deliver on their
assignment. The Director, Family Health, Dr Adebimpe Adebiyi, said that Obstetric
Fistula was a serious and prevalent reproductive health challenge for
women in the developing world. Adebiyi said Nigeria bore about 40 per cent of the global burden. (NAN)