I am bold to say the future of Nigeria is bright. Our current
dispensation of democracy is under 30,  but we are building institutions
that are at par with those built by democracies that boast of 
centuries  of experience with similar democratic institutions. One is
tempted to question why older democracies, for that matter, tend to
expect much from us, despite our fledgling democracy and budding
experience at institution-building. But the high expectation is the more
reason why we should pat ourselves on the back for what we were able to
achieve in few recent years. Nowhere are such strides being recorded in
superb ways than in our financial sector of the economy. And within the
financial sector our ability to transform innovative ideas into
formidable building blocks of accountable institutions is unparalled. Reference
is here made of a financial idea we toyed with 10 years ago; an idea
that our leaders and financial gurus thought would restore stability in
our financial system during crises times and beyond and at the same time
hold our financial institution drivers accountable. It is an idea that,
by extension, seeks to breed the culture of transparency in the system,
thus accentuating the desired confidence in our financial institutions
by depositors and investors at home and from abroad. It is the idea of
Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON). Ten years ago
Nigeria introduced AMCON, following the global financial meltdown of
2008, as an innovative idea of fortifying our financial institutions.
One of the areas focused was the banking sector. Today, Nigerians
are happier with the idea, as it has indeed stabilized the financial
system and rescued them from systemic failures. It has ensured our
depositors do not lose their hard earned savings; or their investors
their investments. Socially the idea has saved thousands of jobs that
would have otherwise been lost in the financial meltdown that affected
the banks. AMCON may have some shortcomings, but that is expected
of any new idea being experimented. But as AMCON grows in experience,
such shortcomings are being addressed with perfect hands of a master
craftsman. Before the advent of AMCON, accountability in the
banking sector, particularly during crisis, was something else. Who will
forget how Chief Executives and their boards have more often than not
failed to undertake stringent investigations to determine whether there
was negligence on their part that led to the collapse of the banks they
were managing? At one time the collapse of banks became crooked
ways of self-enrichment by the management cadre because there was no
regime of accountability, while the system of oversight was weak and the
framework for the regulation of their operations was equally weak. Under
those circumstances, in those years, the victims were the trio of
investors, depositors and workers. They looked on helplessly as their
hard-earned savings disappeared in thin air while bank managers and
their pampered borrowers were sighted again and again enjoying their
ill-gotten riches. AMCON came and put an end to all that
impunity. Three functions have come to define AMCON’s role, namely:
financial stabilization of the system, takeover and debt recovery. Technically,
AMCON’s objectives include assisting eligible financial institutions to
efficiently dispose of eligible bank assets; efficiently manage and
dispose of eligible bank assets acquired by it (AMCON); and obtain the
best achievable financial returns on eligible bank assets or other
assets acquired by it. Let’s take these messianic role of AMCON
in more  detail to better appreciate the good work the institution is
doing for the nation’s economic development efforts under the able
leadership of Malam Ahmed Kuru, a thorough-bred banker that knows his
onions, its CEO. In this position, Kuru is leading a powerful team of
professional to deliver on the mandate of AMCON. In just few
years into its existence AMCON acquired about 13,774 Non-Performing
Loans (NPLs) worth N3.6 trillion from 22 commercial banks to save them
from outright collapse. Its provision of financial accommodation of
N2.2billion protected about N4.7trillion of depositors’ funds and
interbank takings; as well as saved approximately 14,000 jobs. Although
the banking sector has received much of AMCON’s attention, one of the
most celebrated takeovers by AMCON to date was that of Arik Air in 2017
in a fashion similar to how big banks considered “too big to fail” were
saved by Government bailout in the US and Europe following the subprime
loans bust of 2008, Nigeria’s biggest national carrier, Arik Air, was
forced into receivership because it was considered  too costly to allow
it to fail with a whopping N300 billion debt overhang. Like other
similar interventions by AMCON, especially in the banking sector, the
Arik takeover was aimed at instilling sanity in the country’s aviation
sector to prevent a major catastrophe. Before Arik, AMCON intervened to
save Aero, another airline on the verge of total collapse, with greater
relief to the aviation industry. Debt recovery is another
function that defines the role of AMCON. I once argued that the
portrayal of debt collectors as reprehensible villains out to wreck the
life  of a struggling debtor—individual or a business concern—belong to
the past. My reason is that  over the years there has developed a body
of laws to ensure fair dealings in debt collection in Nigeria and
globally. In discharging its mandate as poor these laws, disgruntled
debtors have the tendency of portraying AMCON as villain in its effort
to recovery its debt. I am aware that before a statutory body in
the league of Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) is seen
in open dispute with a debtor, it would have exhausted all options for
amicable settlement of issues. This aside, if truth must be told, no
company or individual is forced to borrow money in the first place.
Ultimately, if companies owe a debt, it’s because they chose to borrow
money. Their lenders made that loan, or offered the credit line,
contingent upon a documented pledge to pay it back. This means creditors
do have a right to their money, and a debt collector is simply trying
to reclaim what is legally and ethically owed by the debtor. The
debtors AMCON is dealing with are those that have passed through all the
three stages of normal debt recovery process.  They have failed to
settle their debts with their initial creditor’s internal collectors
(bank loan recovery teams) referred to as first-party agency, which is
the first stage in the process. The second stage is when a third party
is introduced playing the role of debt collector. The third stage is for
the original creditor to write off the debt and sells it, which is
where AMCON comes in. No one should lose sight of the fact that
AMCON acquires the Non-Performing Loans (NPL) of the banks using tax
payers money; so it is in the national interest that it recovers these
loans from the debtors and to do so in order to return a profit on its
purchase. To do otherwise is to short-change toiling Nigerian tax
payers. This is the more reason AMCON collaborates with some firms that
qualified as its Asset Management Partners (AMPs). The AMPs are
consortiums with specialist skills required to ensure recovery and debt
resolution; banking, legal, valuation and accounting. The move is
AMCON’s strategy to resolve its over six thousand accounts with loan
balances of N100million and below. Surely, in the last 10 years
or so AMCON has played a savior role on multiple levels with regards to
our financial system. It has saved our financial system from systemic
collapse through bail out, bridge banking and outright takeover.  It has
saved strategic companies in different sectors of the economy from
outright collapse and, in the process, saved thousands of jobs of
Nigerian family heads who otherwise would have been thrown into
unemployment. But, above all it has saved depositors and restored
confidence of investors in our banking and financial institutions.
Accountability has finally supplanted impunity. •Hassan, a financial analyst, writes from Abuja 