By Mohammad Tijjani Kaduna – The Commandant, Armed Forces Command and Staff College, AVM Lawal Shittu on Thursday said the college would continue to provide opportunities for experts to provide strategies to keep Nigeria’s maritime environment safe and secure for economic activities. The commandant made the remarks at the opening of a seminar tagged, ‘Optimising Nigerian Navy Policing Duties Through Legal Framework,’ organised by the college’s Department of Maritime Warfare, in Jaji, Kaduna State. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event was under the Law of the Sea Seminar series. for Maritime Warfare Senior Course 41 of the college. Shittu noted that safeguarding the country’s maritime domain remains critical to the economic development and security of Nigeria. The Commandant, who was represented by his Deputy, Rear Admiral Tariworio Dick, said the theme was not only contemporary, but germane and at the heart of the nation’s current efforts in contending with threats of maritime security. “This is particularly important as efforts are constantly being made to curb the illegalities in our environment.” He expressed the hope that at the end of the seminar “we would have a clearer understanding of the relationship between our domestic maritime laws as well as international laws in our efforts towards effectively tackling maritime crimes.” The commandant said the lecture should also provide insight on how to deepen collaboration in securing Nigeria’s maritime domain and in sustaining current security efforts. Earlier, Director, Maritime Warfare, Comdr. Danjuma Moses, said the  seminar was meant to leverage on the law of the sea for enhanced Nigerian Navy maritime operations. Moses said it would also help to  evaluate the legal instruments of the public laws of the sea in curbing crimes, and legal limitations of collaborations in securing Nigerian’s maritime domain. NAN report that papers were presented by Prof. Peter Akper of Nigeria Institute of Advanced Legal Studies and Dr Aminu Gamawa of Baze University Abuja while the lead discussants were from the EFCC and Nigeria Maritime Administration and Safety Agency.