Hanoi – Vietnamese carriers VietJet and Bamboo Airways formally announced on Wednesday deals with Boeing Co to buy 110 planes worth more than 15 billion dollars as the fast-growing companies look to expand their operations in Asia and beyond. On the sidelines of a summit between U.S. President Donald Trump and
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in the Vietnamese capital of Hanoi,
VietJet showcased a recent order to purchase 100 737 MAX planes worth
12.7 billion dollars. The deal was provisionally announced in July 2018 and firmed up later that year, without a public announcement until now. Boeing said the VietJet purchase, which was previously on its order
books as an unidentified order, took the Vietnamese carrier’s MAX orders
to 200 jets and included 80 of its latest 737 MAX 10 model. VietJet CEO Nguyen Thi Phuong Thao told Reuters the first four
aircraft ordered as part of a previous 100-plane deal, announced in 2016
when President Barack Obama visited Vietnam, would be delivered later
this year. Bamboo announced a firm deal with Boeing to purchase 10 wide-bodied 787 planes worth 2.9 billion dollars. Boeing said this deal too was already on its order book as an undisclosed customer. Bamboo, owned by property and leisure company FLC Group, is also in
talks to buy 25 narrow-bodied Boeing 737 planes, Chairman Trinh Van
Quyet told Reuters. Bamboo, which made its first flights in January, had placed a
provisional order last year for 20 Boeing 787 widebody jets worth 5.6
billion dollars at list prices, and Wednesday’s deal is not part of
that. “The purchases are part of our strategy to expand our operations on
the international market, including flying to the United States and
Europe,” Quyet said. Bamboo plans to launch its first international flights in second
quarter this year, with initial destinations in Japan, South Korea,
Thailand and Singapore, he added, ahead of non-stop flights to the
United States late this year or early next. Earlier this month, the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration declared
Vietnam complied with international aviation standards, allowing
Vietnamese carriers to fly to the United States for the first time and
codeshare with U.S. airlines. VietJet also finalised a 5.3 billion dollars long-term engine support
agreement with General Electric for the LEAP-1B engines in its fleet. The White House put the total value of the deals at more than 21 billion dollars. “These deals will support more than 83,000 American jobs and provide
increased safety and reliability for Vietnamese International
travelers,” a senior White House official said. Trump and Kim Jong Un meet in Hanoi on Wednesday for their second
summit, with Trump holding out Vietnam as a model of economic success
that isolated North Korea could follow. Trump hailed the Boeing deals at a lunch with Vietnamese officials. “We appreciate very much that you’re reducing the trade deficit with
the United States, which was very substantial before I got here, and now
where we’re bringing it down with great orders like the orders that you
made today,” Trump said. Vietnam ran a trade surplus of 34.8 billion dollars with the United
States last year, widening from a surplus of 32.2 billion dollars a year
earlier, according to Vietnamese customs data.