By Salisu Sani-Idris Reasons Keffi (Nasarawa State), – Sen. Abdullahi Adamu (APC-Nasarawa West), says the explanations offered by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the postponement of Presidential and National Assembly elections are cogent, but untimely. Adamu, a former two-term governor of Nasarawa State and APC
senatorial candidate, stated this while reacting to the reasons tendered
by INEC for shifting the election, on Sunday in Keffi. According to him, INEC ordinary should have been aware before 12
midnight on Friday that the elections are having some challenges. “From the day INEC conducted the last general elections, they know
constitutionally the day they are going to conduct next elections. “I am saddened by the postponement of elections because up till
midnight of Friday I was under the impression that the election will
hold on Saturday. “Mine is more than an ordinary interest because I am a candidate in
the election and i know the trauma of campaign and trauma of
expectations that accompanied candidate in an elections like this,” he
said. The former governor noted that the INEC chairman assured the nation
of the polls up to the hour before the announcement for the postponement
was made, advising the commission to respect time because time is of
essence in anything we do. The lawmaker also urged INEC to take lessons and put appropriate
measures to avoid the reoccurrence of what happened, saying “We hope
that the assurance given by INEC Chairman will be realised. “We can be seen not to be growing with this institution and we must
be seen to make difference and learn lessons from one episode to the
next. “When or if we don’t it is a sign of failure and we hope we don’t see another postponement of elections,” Adamu said. He appealed to all candidates who are contesting and stakeholders to
bear the lapses, forge ahead and support the electoral umpire. “The reality is that the explanation that we are receiving from INEC
are convincing enough, yet it did not come on time. The timing of the
explanation is untimely because time is of essence in anything that we
do,” said the APC senatorial flag bearer.