By Stanley Nwanosike Enugu – The police command in Enugu State has said that it will soon begin a state-wide campaign against cultism across the state. The command’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Ebere
Amaraizu, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria
(NAN) in Enugu on Tuesday. Amaraizu added that the campaign would be done in partnership with the Nigeria Policing Programme (NPP). He said that the campaign was part of measures put in place by the command for a continued peaceful and secured environment. The police spokesman said that it would also create a robust
police-public relationship with relevant stakeholders to stem the tide
of cultism in the state. He said “The state command will be holding its community-based
campaign on cultism and other social vices in the state beginning from
Feb. 28 to March. “The state-wide community-based campaign as supported by one of the
police partners – NPP – will take place across the three senatorial
zones in the state namely: Enugu East, Enugu North and Enugu West
senatorial zones. “The campaign for Enugu East Zone comes up on Feb. 28 by 10.a.m at the Superior Police Officers Mess Agbani Road, Enugu. “While that of Enugu North Zone shall take place at Adada Hall in
Nsukka by 10 a.m. on March 1, and that of Enugu West Zone on March 2
at council hall of Awgu Local Government Area beginning from 10 a.m.’’ He added that the campaign was designed to expose the inherent dangers of cultism and related crimes. Amaraizu said that the campaign would provide support system for youth/students and reform repentant members of cult groups. He said it would also provide a platform for information sharing among schools, communities and law enforcement agencies. “The campaign will have the presence of traditional rulers, community
leaders, students, youth groups, heads of schools, artisans, clergy as
well as state intervention lead of NPP in Enugu, Mr Solomon Akpanufot, ”
he  added. (NAN) LEON - Police on Tuesday arrested two women in Leon, suspected of shooting a 59-year-old… By Ramatu Garba Kano - The Police in Kano State on Tuesday, said it arrested… By Victor Okoye Abuja - The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Monday announced Atiku…