By JoyMbachi Awka – Mr Godwin Ezeemo, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain in Anambra has appealed to the electorate yet to collect their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) to do so before Feb 8, the deadline for the collection of the cards. Ezeemo made the appeal in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Awka on Wednesday. He said that collection of PVC should not be toyed with, adding that
card gave the electorate the power to elect leaders of their choice in
the forthcoming general elections. Ezeemo also urged the people who took part in the last voter
registration in the country to consider their PVC as of great importance
and a valuable tool for the success of the forthcoming elections. He condemned those who failed to attach importance to voting, adding that the electoral process was a civic duty. Ezeemo urged Nigerians with lukewarm attitude toward political
activities to eschew the behavior, adding that it could lead to
enthronement of incompetent leaders to run the affairs the country. The chieftain reminded the electorate that if they fail to pick up
their PVCs before Feb. 8, they had disenfranchised themselves during the
forthcoming general elections. “We cannot continue to cry for restructuring or that we are
politically marginalised when we fail to do our part in enthroning good
leaders. “We cannot be at our various comfort zones to elect quality and credible leaders by avoiding electoral process. “We are taking the lead in electing unsound minds who would not
cement the efforts of our political fathers by not going out to vote,”
Ezeemo said. He said the importance of PVCs in elections could not be over
emphasised and described it as the only tool the citizenry would use to
vote out unpopular leaders and vote in credible leaders. Ezeemo called on the electorate to perform their civic responsibility
during the general elections by voting based on their belief and not
based on electoral inducement. NAN reports that Ezeemo was Anambra governorship candidate under
Progressive People’s Alliance (PPA) before defecting PDP in 2018 (