By Ebere Agozie Abuja – The Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) UN says hunger in Africa has continued to rise with 237 million people affected in sub-Saharan Africa, straining global and continental hunger eradication efforts. FAO’s Deputy Director-General, Climate and Natural Resources, Maria Semedo said this in a joint UN repot released on Friday. Semedo said that hunger in Africa continued to rise after many years
of decline, threatening the continent’s hunger eradication efforts to
meet the Malabo Goals 2025 and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development. “The report indicates that 237 million people in sub-Saharan Africa
are suffering from chronic undernutrition, derailing the gains made in
the past years. “It shows that more people will continue to suffer from
undernourishment in Africa than in any other region and evidence
suggests that in 2017, 20 per cent of the African population was
undernourished. “The worsening trend in Africa is due to difficult global economic
and worsening environmental conditions and in many countries, conflict
and climate variability and extremes, sometimes combined.’’ She said that the economic growth slowed in 2016 due to weak commodity prices, in particular for oil and minerals. According to her, food insecurity has worsened in countries affected
by conflict often exacerbated by drought or floods, for example, in
Southern and Eastern Africa, many countries suffered from drought. “Of the 257 million hungry people in Africa, 237 million are in sub-Saharan Africa and 20 million in northern Africa. “Compared to 2015, there were an additional 34.5 million more
undernourished people in Africa with 32.6 million in sub-Saharan Africa
and 1.9 million in Northern Africa. “Nearly half of the increase is due to the rise in the number of
undernourished people in Western Africa, while another third is from
Eastern Africa.’’ She said that at the regional level, the prevalence of stunting in
children under five was falling, but only few countries were on track to
meet the global nutrition target for stunting. “The number of overweight children under five continues to rise and
is particularly high in northern and southern Africa, thus the progress
towards meeting the WHO’s global nutrition targets is slow at the
continental level. “In many countries, notably in eastern and southern Africa, adverse
climatic conditions due to El Niño led to a decline in agricultural
production and soaring staple food prices. “The economic and climatic situation has improved in 2017, but some
countries continue to be affected by drought or poor rainfall.’’ Semedo said that greater efforts and collaborations were needed to
achieve SDG 2 and the global nutrition targets amidst the important
challenges faced by the continent, such as tackling youth employment and
climate change. “Agriculture and the rural sector must play a key role in creating
decent jobs for the 10 to 12 million youths that join the labour market
each year.’’ Semedo said that another growing threat to food security and
nutrition in Africa, particularly to countries relying heavily on
agriculture “is climate change’’. “The effects of climate change reduced precipitation and higher
temperatures negatively influence the yields of staple food crops. “At the same time, there are significant opportunities for
agriculture in developing intra-African trade, harnessing remittances
for development, and investing in youth. “Although agricultural intra-African exports rose from two billion
dollars in 2000 to 13.7 billion dollars in 2013, they remain relatively
modest and often informal.’’ Semedo said that remittances from international and internal
migration played important role in reducing poverty and hunger just as
it stimulates productive investments. “International remittances amount to nearly 70 billion dollars, about
three percent of Africa’s GDP, and present an opportunity for national
development that governments should work on to strengthen.’’ According to her, the signing of the African Continental Free Trade
Area agreement provides an opportunity to accelerate growth and
sustainable development by increasing trade, including trade in
agricultural products. She said that opening trade of food also carried risks to consumer
and producer welfare, and governments should avoid using trade policy
for multiple objectives. “Government should rather combine trade reform with additional
instruments, such as safety nets and risk-mitigating programmes, to
achieve food security and nutrition goals.’’ She however called for greater action to address the threat from
climate variability and extremes in line with the year’s Regional
Overview titled: Addressing the Threat from Climate Variability and
Extremes for Food Security and Nutrition. “This illustrates that climate variability and extremes in part due
to climate change are important factors underlying the recent rise in
food insecurity and severe food crises on the continent. “Many countries in Africa are at great risk to climate-related disasters and suffer from them frequently. “Over the last 10 years, climate-related disasters affected on
average 16 million people and caused annually 0.67 billion dollars in
damages across the continent.’’ Semedo noted that not all the shorter-term climate variations might be attributable to climate change. “The evidence shows that more numerous and more frequent occurrences
of climate extremes and a rise in climate variability are threatening to
erode gains made toward ending hunger and malnutrition. “Therefore, greater urgency in building resilience of households,
communities and countries to climate variability and extremes is needed. “We need to face myriad challenges to building institutional capacity
in designing, coordinating and scaling up actions for risk monitoring
and early warning systems, emergency preparedness and response. “Also vulnerability reduction measures, shock-responsive social
protection, and planning and implementing resilience-building measures
must be addressed. “Strategies toward climate change adaptation and disaster risk
reduction must be aligned as well as coordinated with interventions in
nutrition and food systems across sectors.”
FAO’s Deputy Director-General said that in terms of developing climate
adaptation strategies and implementation, there was the need for greater
efforts in data collection, monitoring and implementation of climate
smart agriculture practices. “Continued efforts through partnerships, blending climate change
adaptation and disaster risk reduction and long-term financing can
bridge humanitarian and development approaches,’’ she said.