By Stanley Nwanosike Enugu – The Nigerian Army has debunked a report  that troops of Egwu Eke lll, also known as Operation Python Dance 3, shot or wounded persons in Aba, Abia. Col. Sagir Musa, Deputy Director, Public Relations,  82 Division of
the Nigerian Army, made the denial in a statement in Enugu on Saturday. Musa urged members of the public to disregard the false and misleading information. He, however, said that six members of proscribed Independent People
of Biafra (IPOB) were arrested and handed over to Abia State Police
Command by the troop. According to him, the attention of the division has been drawn to an
online news publication alleging that some soldiers of 144 Battalion on
routine patrol in Aba shot three persons and one of them died instantly. He said that the publication gathering attention in the social media was by – Starcoded.com.ng  on Feb. 7. “The division wishes to state that, although there was an incident
involving 144 Battalion patrol team with some traders at Asa-Nnentu
Spare Parts Market in Ugwunagbo Local Government Area of Abia,  at no
time was anybody shot at, wounded or killed as lopsidedly and wrongly
reported by the online medium. “For record purpose, this was what happened: At 12.00 hours on
Wednesday, Feb. 6, troops of the Battalion on exercise Egwu Eke III were
alerted on the massive presence of some youths allegedly disrupting
commercial activities and pasting posters with the inscription –  “There
will be no elections in Abia State and Entire Biafra Land’’, “Support
Biafran Referendum’’, “Vote for Biafra, Vote for Total Freedom from
Slavery’’ –  among others, which were unusually widely pasted on private
shops around Aloaji general area of Aba. “Consequently, as professionally responsive soldiers, the team moved
to the area to ensure peace and security;  no person was to be harassed
or molested by miscreants or violent secessionist agitators. “Unfortunately, some of the misguided traders and hoodlums loitering
around started chanting anti-soldier commentaries, with some of them
boldly obstructing troops’ movements. “This situation, necessarily, in the circumstance, caused two of the
personnel to fire warning shots to disperse the surging crowd,’’ he
said. Musa said that since that day, the area had been calm and the
outlawed IPOB posters removed, while residents had been going about
their normal businesses unhindered. He warned individuals and groups o desist from confronting troops on legitimate duty. “Nigerian Army personnel will not tolerate violent secessionist
agitation; we remain apolitical, neutral, professional and responsive in
the discharge of our constitutional roles in line with the vision and
policy directive of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.- Gen. Tukur Buratai. “Members of the public are requested to disregard the wrongful
publication  as there has not been a genuine report of any major fracas,
rights abuses, shooting, wounding or killing of anybody by soldiers
since the commencement of exercise Egwu Eke III,’’ he said. The deputy director said that the division  appreciated and
commended  the cooperation from the public which, he said,  assisted in
the successes it recorded so far.