By Abujah Racheal Abuja – The leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), on Sunday, facilitated with the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, for surviving an helicopter crash on Saturday in Kabba, Kogi. The President, Rev. Samson Ayokunle, in a statement in Abuja, issued
by his Special Assistant, Media and Communications, Pastor Adebayo
Oladeji, also appreciated God for Osinbajo’s safety. “The leadership of CAN is grateful to God and rejoice with the Federal Government and Osinbajo. “We give glory to God for sparing the life of the Vice President and
his team from the helicopter crash while mobilising support for his
party in preparation for the coming general elections,” he said. The cleric recalled that the Vice President had similar experience  in 2018 while visiting the Nigeria Customs College in Gwagwalada, Abuja. “It is our prayers that God will continue to watch over him and other top government functionaries in Jesus’ Name,” he said. Ayokunle urged the technical team or those responsible for the certification of the aircrafts and helicopters in the country used by the government officials to be more meticulous so as to avoid putting their lives in danger. “May God continue to watch over our nation, our leaders and its citizens in the name of Jesus,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that a statement by the
Vice President Spokesperson, Laolu Akande, explained: “The Vice
President, departed Abuja around 1p.m Saturday on a chopper ride to Kogi
State in continuation of the Family Chats & Next Level engagements. “Prof. Osinbajo headed first to Kabba, and while landing at the Kabba
Stadium, the helicopter suddenly skidded sideways until it halted on
its side few metres away from the intended resting spot. “Alongside VP Osinbajo, the Minister of State for Labour and 
Productivity, Prof. Stephen Ocheni, senior presidential aides, security
officials and the crew; there were a total of 12 people on board.
everyone came out safely after the incident. “The Vice President is continuing the planned engagements in Kogi State as scheduled.”