By Douglas Okoro bii – Mrs Maria Ude-Nwachi, member representing Afikpo North-East State Constituency in the Ebonyi House of Assembly, says she is in politics to emancipate women and youths in the state. Ude-Nwachi said this at a news conference on Sunday in Ibii community, Afikpo North Local Government Area of Ebonyi. The female legislator was elected member of the Ebonyi House of
assembly in 2015 under the platform of the People’s Progressives
Alliance (PPA) and became the only opposition member of the 24-member
house. Ude-Nwachi, who decried marginalisation of women and youths in
elective positions in Nigeria, urged them to break the barrier by
presenting themselves for elective positions. The lawmaker, who is vying for the Afikpo North and Afikpo South
Federal Constituency under the Alliance for New Nigeria, said a nation
that excluded women from decision making would hardly make progress. She said that her venturing into politics was to reverse the
narrative by mentoring, sponsoring and mobilising women for polical
positions in Ebonyi and the country at large. “If elected as a member of the federal house, I will use my position
to galvanize the women of Ebonyi including the youths into active
partisan politics. “This is because our women and youths actually need someone to guide them. “I will mentor a lot of women and mobilise them to go into various
political positions because having women in politics will be good for us
because of the in-built compassion,” Ude-Nwachi said. The lawmaker regretted that no woman in Ebonyi was given ticket by
either the People’s Democratic Party or the All Progressives Congress in
the forthcoming general elections. Ude-Nwachi, who built and donated an N85 million ultra modern
restroom facility at the popular Eke Afikpo Market and other
constituency projects, expressed confidence in winning at the poll. “My support base cut across ages, social, economic and political
divides and my performance as a state legislator is speaking for me. “I am the best and most credible among the other candidates for the
position and so my people will indeed cast their votes for me,” she
added. She advised the electorate against selling their Permanent Voter
Cards (PVCs) and urged those who have yet to collect their PVCs to do so
before the Feb. 8 dateline. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the female legislator
has empowered thousands of women and youths of Afikpo North through her
pet project ‘Deborah Generation’.