By Funmilola Gboteku and Stellamaris Ashinze Lagos – A panel at the ongoing Social Media Week (SMW) on Thursday described mobile apps as the best selling point in the African fashion industry. Members of the panel made this known while discussing on “The
Democratisation Of Fashion: New Media, Storytelling and The Role Of
Technology in The African Fashion Industry” in Lagos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that SMW is one of the
world’s foremost conferences and industry news platforms for marketers. It provides brands, agencies and technology providers with the latest
insights, trends and best practices together with access to a global
community of marketing decision makers. The theme centres on successful retail brands, designers and industry. It points out why creatives must employ strategy and build individual
roadmaps for their businesses to foster growth, sustain creativity,
drive connection, and build community. The panelists said that technology was breaking down barriers,
exponentially increasing communication channels and forcibly evolving
business models. In her remarks, Veronica Odeika, the Founder, Vane Style, said that
mobile apps like Instagram and Facebook, were the best tools for
advertising in the fashion industry. Odeika said that through her Website, there was a global market that could be accessed to understand the fashion trends. According to her, distance is no longer a barrier, if there are available materials that attract the consumers’ desire. “Instagram has done so much right now to boost bussiness, especially the fashion industry. “Right now, a lot of stores are selling more online due to a wide range of customers more than physical stores,” Odeika said. Also, Wana Sambo, the Founder, Wana Sambo Fashion, said that the
social media platform had been able to bridge the gap in the fashion
industry. Sambo said that technology had made fashion easy and accessible for people. Commenting, Mr Davidson Peterside, Co-Founder, Fashion Map, said that
technology was the best enabler to promote the image of the fashion
industry. Peterside also described technology as “a main driver of the economy”. (NAN)