Singer and songwriter, Timi Dakolo, has disputed the claim that Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA) senior pastor, Biodun Fatoyinbo, officiated his wedding to Busola Dakolo. False reports had claimed that the Abuja-based clergyman had wedded the couple and sponsored a trip to Chicago for Busola. In an Instagram post on Thursday, Timi shared a video of his vows to his wife and cleared up the false report. “Desperate people do desperate things including ridiculous attempts at a smear campaigns. So let me address this foolishness once and for all. “1• First the ridiculous rumor that Biodun wedded us. Please watch the video yourself , does the Pastor look like Biodun Fatoyinbo? His name is Pastor Seyi of Global Impact church officiating the wedding and that is a statement from Yemi Davids ,Pastor of Global impact church on this issue …but nameless and faceless cyberbullies cant read , can they? “2• I have never met or been in the same space with Biodun Fatoyinbo nor do I ever want to be and have never been a member of COZA 3• I guess that also answers the desperate attempt to say I was a music director in COZA. Funny as I have never been a music director in ANY church ! A church cant have an anonymous music director can they ? Foolishness ! “4• Apparently I had a child, divorced and remarried Busola – Spirit wife and child tings #AfricaMagic , and Busola was given monetary gift ,car and flown to chicago . No be only Chicago , na Soweto. Please do better ,tell more believable lies . Again I say, desperate people will do desperate things …but as I said before …WE. ARE .READY,” he wrote. Desperate people do desperate things including ridiculous attempts at a smear campaigns. So let me address this foolishness once and for all 1• First the ridiculous rumor that Biodun wedded us. Please watch the video yourself , does the Pastor look like Biodun Fatoyinbo? His name is Pastor Seyi of Global Impact church officiating the wedding and that is a statement from Yemi Davids ,Pastor of Global impact church on this issue …but nameless and faceless cyberbullies cant read , can they ? 2• I have never met or been in the same space with Biodun Fatoyinbo nor do I ever want to be and have never been a member of COZA 3• I guess that also answers the desperate attempt to say I was a music director in COZA. Funny as I have never been a music director in ANY church ! A church cant have an anonymous music director can they ? Foolishness ! 4• Apparently I had a child, divorced and remarried Busola – Spirit wife and child tings #AfricaMagic , and Busola was given monetary gift ,car and flown to chicago . No be only Chicago , na Soweto. Please do better ,tell more believable lies . Again I say, desperate people will do desperate things …but as I said before …WE. ARE .READY. We came out to speak on this painful matter . To bear the shame that goes with this, to be ridiculed, to be doubted …just so that others might be saved and justice served . We are not backing down and no amount of manufactured lies can stop the truth that has started to unveil… #notinmychurch #unbroken #truth A post shared by  Timi dakolo (@timidakolo) on Jul 4, 2019 at 6:46am PDT Source: QED