By Adaeze Iroha Lagos – The police on Monday arraigned a security guard, Akinrotimi Ifeolu, 60,  in a Yaba Chief Magistrates’ Court, Lagos, after he allegedly failed to produce a suspect he stood surety for, in a cheating case. Ifeolu, who resides at Isheri Oshun, Lagos, is charged with conspiracy, failure to produce defendant, attempt to pervert justice, and disobedience to lawful order. He, however, pleaded not guilty. The Prosecution Counsel, ASP Roman Unuigbe, told the court that the defendant committed the offence on Nov. 21, 2018,  at 5 p.m. at the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) Yaba, Lagos. Unuigbe said that the defendant stood as surety for his neighbour, Stephen Korede, who was charged with obtaining N1.5 million from a businesswoman under pretences. He alleged that while the matter was still being investigated by the police, the defendant willing stood surety for Korede, knowing full well that he committed the offence. Unuigbe alleged that Ifeolu signed an undertaking to produce Korede in court or forfeit N1.5million to the Lagos State Government. He alleged that Korede has failed to appear for his trial on three adjourned days and there was a bench warrant for his re-arrest. “My Lord, the defendant has to show cause why the N1.5million bail bond he entered into as a surety should not be forfeited to the Lagos State Government,” Unuigbe said. The offence, he said, contravened the provisions of sections 97, 123 and 132 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015 and Section 132 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Law of Lagos State 2015. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Section 97 provides seven years imprisonment for attempt to pervert justice, while Section 123 prescribes one year or N50,000 fine for disobedience to lawful order. Chief Magistrate P.A. Ojo admitted the defendant to bail in the sum of N500,000 with two sureties in like sum. Ojo ordered that the sureties must be gainfully employed and show evidence of three years tax payment to Lagos State Government. The case was adjourned until Sept. 9 for mention.