By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has summoned Senator Elisha Abbo an condemned his action in a trending video where he was seen assaulting a nursing mother. The party said though the action is a personal conduct of an individual which has no bearing with the culture of our party, but it will not condone such lawless and callous act from its members. The party disclosed this on Wednesday in a statement signed by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan sent to Sundiata Post. The statement reads in full: The attention of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has been drawn to a CCTV footage relating to allegations of malfeasance by a senator elected on the platform of the PDP, Senator Elisha Abbo. The PDP, as a law-abiding and upstanding party, detests and completely condemn such act of lawlessness and callousness as exhibited in the video and will therefore never condone it. Our party is also shocked that the harmless victim of the unprovoked assault is said to be a nursing mother, who ought to be protected. Though this is a personal conduct of an individual which has no bearing with the culture of our party, the PDP however holds that no responsible person will condone such an attitude. In the light of this, the NWC has commenced investigation into the matter and summons Senator Elisha Abbo in line with the provisions of the Constitution of the PDP and code of conduct of our members. In the same vein, the party has taken note of the immediate action taken by the Senate. The PDP, at all levels of engagement, is reputed for her utmost respect and commitment towards the rights, safety and wellbeing of our citizens, particularly our women and cannot tolerate any callous assault on any Nigerian. The PDP therefore assures Nigerians that it will always stand on the side of justice and will never spare a thought in taking action on any of its members found wanting, particularly those elected or appointed into public offices. Signed: Kola Ologbondiyan
National Publicity Secretary