By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – President of the Senate, Senator Ahmed Lawan on Tuesday informed that he is not for any adversarial or acrimonious relationship with the executive or any of the arms government for that matter. Lawan, who disclosed this in his welcome address, titled: “Now the work begins”, pledged to lead in a bipartisan and unifying manner, adding, “I am well aware that the problems of our country are quite enormous but they are not insurmountable. If we all work together as members of the same government, with different roles, we will achieve our goals to better the lots of the Nigerian people.He further assured that he intends working closely with President Muhammadu Buhari in the interest of Nigeria without compromising the integrity of the National Assembly as an independent arm of government with oversight powers. “I am also aware that there are people for whom any notion that the leadership of a National Assembly controlled by the ruling party work in harmony with the executive is anathema. That is not the way the presidential system of government was designed to function and I am not for any adversarial or acrimonious relationship.”he stressed. Lawan, however, explained how the National Assembly will checkmate the executive through oversight functions meant to enhance transparency. According to him, “As lawmakers, one of the powerful tools we have for our work is the power of oversight which is meant to enhance transparency and accountability. In exercising these powers, we will not only review, monitor and supervise projects being implemented by the executive, we will critically examine them vis-à-vis the cost and whether they align with our national aspirations. And we will follow the progress of these projects right from conception to when they are finally delivered to the people. But we will do so with every sense of responsibility,” he said. The president of the senate therefore admonished his colleagues to ensure that at all times, and in all circumstances, they are being guided by how their action will positively impact the greater majority of our people. Lawan also drew the attention of senators to the poverty ravaging the nation, lamenting that the number of out of school children is worrisome. ”Even though primary education is officially free and compulsory, over 10 million of the country’s children aged 5 – 14 years are out of school,” he said. 