By Chibuike Nwabuko ABUJA – (Sundiata Post) – The Rotary Club of Abuja CBD on Friday installed Rotarian Yelwa Abubakar as its third president. The colourful event, which marked both the handover of leadership of the club from the Immediate Past President, (IPP) Martins Odeh to Yelwa Abubakar and fund raising, took place at the Stonehedge  Hotel, Central Business District, FCT, Abuja. In her speech as the new President, Rotarian Yelwa Abubakar said that throughout her life, she had desired to help others because when she was growing up, she saw the sufferings of other children around her age who were from less privileged homes. Her words: “Throughout my life, I’ve had the desire to help others because when I was growing up; I saw the suffering of other children around my age who were from less privileged homes. Some could not even attend school while others dropped out because of the inability of their parents to pay their school fees.” She said this prompted her burning desire to contribute towards putting smiles on the faces of people who could hardly help themselves. She added that while relaying her aspirations to help people to her good friend, Salome Garba, she (Salome, who was then Charter President) invited her to join the newly founded Rotary Club of Abuja CBD in 2016, which she found as a great avenue to reach out to the less privileged in the society through humanitarian activities. President Yelwa, who acknowledged that a lot of activities have been carried out by her two predecessors, promised to finish any uncompleted project initiated by the two previous presidents and to initiate new ones before the end of her tenure in the next twelve months. She informed that this year’s theme as announced by Rotary International President , Mark Daniel Maloney is “ROTARY CONNECTS THE WORLD”. “Rotary is a call to humanitarian service, a personal conviction of the need to serve other people. It is offering humanitarian aids out of one’s freewill,” she added. Earlier in his valedictory speech, the immediate past president, Martins Odeh who expressed appreciation for the confidence reposed in him to serve by the club members, said that they have leveraged on Rotary mandate that provides free services to the world to carry out a number of projects. He said the club in conjunction with four other Rotary clubs in the Abuja held Peace Walk for a violent free general election when there was tension in the country ahead of the 2019 polls. The chairman of the occasion, Hon Justice Nathan Musa, who was represented by Chief Sam Adam, commended the club for its humanitarian services. He said that from what he has heard about Rotary Club, it dwells on three key issues of friendship, service and opportunity. Others present at the event were former Minister of Women Affairs, Mrs Salamatu Suleiman, Dr Davidson Isibor Akimien and a host of other dignitaries. The highlight of the event was the decoration of Yelwa Abubakar with the paraphernalia of office as President of the Rotary Club of Abuja CBD, District 9125.