By
Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja
(Sundiata Post) – Group under the auspices of Not Too Young To Run Movement has reacted to
the non-inclusion of youths in the 43-man male dominated ministerial nominees
sent to the senate for confirmation, saying that President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives
Congress (APC) have missed opportunity to keep their promise and show faith and
fidelity with the Nigerian youths who entrusted them with a mandate for the
next four years. The group which reminded that Nigeria’s most important resource is the youth
stressed that the energy, intelligence and talent of the youth are what will
drive and develop Nigeria. Not Too Young To Run Movement disclosed this
on Thursday in a statement thus: Following
the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress
(APC) at the general elections, the President exercised his constitutional
power to nominate ministers to form the Federal Executive Council and forwarded
the names to the Senate for screening and confirmation. The
list comprises 43 male dominated nominees coming from across all 36 states with
the notable exclusion of nominees below the age of 35. The conspicuous absence
of young people under the age of 35 in the ministerial nominees read by Senate
President Ahmed Lawan as sent to the National Assembly by President Muhammadu
Buhari contradicts the letter and spirit of the Not Too Young To Run Law and
the promise of inclusion in governance and political processes for Nigerian
youth. The list of ministerial nominees is neither inclusive nor representative
of the population and those who voted for President Muhammadu Buhari including
youth, women and persons with disabilities. The
Movement recalls that President Buhari, at the signing of the Not Too Young To
Run (age reduction) Bill into Law noted that the focus and contributions of the
Movement successfully increased the quality and maturity of Nigerian democracy
and expanded the political space for youth participation in politics. Similarly,
the All Progressives Congress (APC), Next Level Road Map prioritized Inclusion
in Government by promising more youth appointments. The list of ministerial
nominees is a missed opportunity by President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC to
keep their promise and show faith and fidelity with the Nigerian youths who
entrusted them with a mandate for the next four years. Nigeria’s
most important resource is not oil, not agriculture, not solid minerals – but
undoubtedly the youth. Our energy, intelligence and talent are what will drive
and develop Nigeria. Nigerian youths are ready to leave our mark on the
political space, just as we have done over the decades in entrepreneurship,
sports, art, media entertainment, technology, and several other fields. Nigeria
needs a government constituted to represent its diversity with respect to youth
and women representation. The
recent emergence of Speakers under the age of 35 in State Houses of assembly of
Oyo, Zamfara, Kwara and Plateau, as well as young representatives in various
principal positions in their State Houses of Assembly demonstrates the capacity
and competence of Nigerian youth. The
Not Too Young To Run movement is driven by the compelling need to restructure
the country’s political system to address the deeply entrenched system of
political exclusion and institute inclusive politics for transformative
leadership and sustainable democracy. To this end, the Movement calls on
President Buhari to ensure more appointment of youth, women and persons with
disabilities into boards and agencies and on State Governors to write their
names in history by appointing a truly inclusive cabinets and ensure youth
representation in boards and agencies across the 36 states of the Federation. The
constitution of the Federal Executive Council is an opportunity for Nigeria to
show leadership in the continent as a country committed to promoting inclusion
of youth and women for inclusive growth and sustainable development and
democracy in Nigeria. One
Shared Value, One Shared Goal, #NOTTOOYOUNGTORUN Our
Shared Value, Our Shared Goal, #NOTTOOYOUNGTORUN Signed Not Too Young
To Run Movement