Nigerians on social media have reacted to the reappointment of Abba Kyari as Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari and Boss Mustapha as Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), respectively President Buhari announced the reappointment of Kyari as Chief of Staff (COS) and Mustapha as SGF on Friday. Both appointments take effect from May 29, 2019. The appointment has since generated diverse reactions from Nigerians online. Here are some comments gathered from Twitter: @Nedunaija “You worked with Abba Kyari for over 3 years, got convinced that you were satisfied with his work, won election 2 months before inauguration, yet it took you well over 1 month AFTER inauguration to announce his reappointment as your Chief of Saff. Oh Presido! @Betakoncept “Abba Kyari: If you think General Buhari will appoint fresh people as Ministers, you need to have a rethink. And if you think he will change the service chiefs, and Heads of security agencies that’s another mistake. He will return all his past appointees for the Fulanization agenda.” @Obi_nwosu “The decision to Re-appoint Abba Kyari and Boss Mustapha. Simply says “shebi una reject RUGA, let the game begin” @Sadiqdankabira “Reappointment of CBN governor now Abba Kyari? Mr President we are not fools. Buhari I just want you to know this.” @Iniebeeffiong “Godwin Emefiele, Abba Kyari and co. will not lose their seats in Buhari’s dining table because of scandals. A scandalous government cannot change/remove its principal officers because of scandals. A man that is already on the ground does not fear sand. The cabal has won again.” @Iliyasgiliyas2 “I’m totally disappointed with Mr. President most especially the reappointment of Abba Kyari. This is total recycling and nothing about #Next level.” @Femiadegbulugbe “I deeply and sincerely congratulate CoS Abba Kyari and Boss Mustapha on a well deserved re appointment. It is my hope that you will use this opportunity to improve stakeholder engagement at the level of the Presidency and promote a Govt of Nigeria PMO. @Obelezealiora “As expected. Congratulations to the appointees for surviving the infighting. Sorry to Nigerians, myself included: our misfortune continues.” @OdanapgunG “This Man can never be swayed to do things he doesn’t belief in. Upon all the protest, he went ahead to reappoint Abba Kyari.” @Jrdadoo”Boss Mustapha no doubt he performs better than Babachir. But I see no reason Abba Kyari still maintain that seat.”