The Port Harcourt Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, has secured the conviction of five oil thieves for illegal dealing in petroleum products. The convicts who were charged before Justice I.M. Sani of the Federal High Court, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, include: Tajudeen Kolawole, Jamal Lawan, Aljahi Usman Wada, Godiya James and Rufus Animi. Wada, James and Animi were arraigned on July 3, 2019 while Kolawole and Lawan were arraigned on July 4, 2019. The charge against Wada reads: “That you, Alhaji Usman Wada on or about the 6th of August, 2017 at Port Harcourt within the jurisdiction of this Honorable Court did distribute petroleum products (AGO) conveyed in a white DAF truck with registration number RNG 496 XA and thereby committed an offence contrary to section 4(1) of Petroleum Act, Cap P10, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria (LFN) 2004 and punishable under Section 4(6) of the Same Act.” He pleaded “guilty” to the one-count charge. In view of his plea, counsel for the EFCC, M.T. Iko prayed the court to convict and sentence him accordingly. Defence counsel, A.M. Eyan did not oppose the prayer. Justice Sani thereafter convicted and sentenced Wada to one year in prison with an option of fine of N100,000 and ordered that the products conveyed in the truck be forfeited to the Federal Government. The judge also ordered that the truck involved in the case be returned to the owner. The charge against James reads: “That you, Godiya James sometimes in April 2019 at Port Harcourt within the jurisdiction of this Honorable Court did distribute about 80 nylon bags of petroleum products (AGO) conveyed in truck with registration number MKD 172 ZN and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 4(1) of Petroleum Act, Cap P10, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria (LFN) 2004 and punishable under Section 4(6) of the Same Act.” He pleaded “guilty” to the charge. In view of his plea, counsel for the EFCC, F.O. Amama prayed the court to convict and sentence him accordingly. Defence counsel, A.M. Saliu did not oppose the prayer. Justice Sani thereafter convicted and sentenced him to one year in prison with an option of fine of N100,000 and ordered that the products conveyed in the truck be forfeited to the Federal Government. The judge also ordered that the truck involved in the case be returned to the owner. The charge against Animi reads: “That you, Rufus Animi, sometimes in May, 2019, in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court did distribute 40 drums of petroleum products (Automated Gas Oil) without a licence and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 4(1) of the Petroleum Act, CAP P10 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria (LFN) 2004, and punishable under Section 4(6) of the same Act.” He pleaded “guilty” to the charge. In view of his plea, counsel for the EFCC, Samuel Chime urged the court to convict and sentence him accordingly. Defence counsel, Babatunde Okpadola, however urged the court to temper justice with mercy. Justice Sani, thereafter, convicted and sentenced Animi to two years in prison with an option of fine of N50,000. The charge against Kolawole reads: “That you, Tajudeen Kolawole, being the driver onboard a green Toyota Camry with Registration Number APP 988 BE Lagos State on or about the 21th day of June, 2019 at Port Harcourt, Rivers State, within the jurisdiction of this Honorable Court dealt in petroleum products to wit: transporting 48 nylon bags of Automotive Gas Oil (AGO) without appropriate licence or authority and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 4 (1) of the Petroleum Act CAP P10 of the Revised Edition (Laws of the Federation of Nigeria) 2007 and punishable under Section 4(6) of the same Act.” He pleaded “guilty” to the charge. Counsel for the EFCC, Ramiah Ikahanede and defence counsel, Adeyemi Adekunle agreed on the convict’s guilty plea. Justice Sani, thus, convicted and sentenced him to a fine of N50,000. The charge against Lawan reads: “That you, Kamal Lawan on or about September 2018, in Port Harcourt within the jurisdiction of this Honorable Court did distribute petroleum products (Automotive Gas Oil) without a licence and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 4(1) of Petroleum Act, CAP P10, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria (LFN) 2004 and punishable under Section 4(6) of the same Act.” He pleaded “guilty” to the one-count charge. In view of his plea, counsel for the EFCC, Samuel Chime prayed the court to convict and sentence him accordingly. Defence counsel, Babatunde Opadola did not oppose the prayer. Subsequently, Justice Sani convicted and sentenced him to two years in prison with an option of fine of N100,000 and ordered that the products conveyed in the truck be forfeited to the Federal Government. The judge also ordered that the truck involved in the case be returned to the owner.