By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Senate has commiserated with Elder Statesman, Pa Reuben Fasoranti over Friday’s murder of his daughter, Mrs Funke Olakunrin, along akure -Ore road, in Ondo State. Senate which describes the gruesome killing of the 58 years old Mrs Funke as very sad, devastating and a worrisome development, stressed that security to life is a fundamental right of every citizen and Nigerians deserve this inaneliable right from the government all the time. Chairman, Senate Ad-hoc committee on media and Public Affairs, Senator Adedayo Adeyeye disclosed this on Sunday in a statement made available to newsmen. According to the statement, the National Assembly (Senate) is disturbed by the spare of incessant attacks and wanton killings of citizens either by the herdsmen, hired assassins, kidnappers and or other men of the underworld that are having field days in wrecking havoc on the life and properties of innocent citizens in the country. How have we gone this bad? “Security to life ,Senate emphasizes is a fundamental right of every citizen ,therefore, Nigerians deserve this inanelinable right from the government all the time. While condemning this heinous and barbaric act, the Senate urges the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu to begin massive manhunt for the killers of Late Mrs Funke Olakunrin and ensure that the perpetrators of this gruesome killing  are apprehended. Also, measures to prevent future occurrence of such incidence should be put in place by improving the security architectures on the Nigerian highways,social gatherings and worship centres across the country. “The Senate will cooperate with the executive and creat enabling legislative environment towards solving this security crisis in the country. It will consider favourably, every appropriation request from the executive targeted at strengthening security in the country. The Senate further extends its condolences to the elder statesman, Pa Reuben Fasoranti and the entire family.  And pray God will console and be with the entire family in this hour of bereavement.  