Social media users on Friday reacted to the call by the Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) to ban reality television show, Big Brother Naija (BBN). The Muslim body had written a petition to President Muhammadu Buhari calling on him to ensure that the Federal Government stops the airing of the television show. MURIC Director, Professor Ishaq Akintola in the petition labeled the show as ‘immoral, dangerous and bohemian’ They also wondered why the Ministry of Information and Culture and the National Orientation Agency are doing nothing over the show. This petition sparked a reaction from social media users who took to Twitter to express disapproval. Many using the hashtag #BBNaija #MURIC laughed at the petition noting that the Television show is rated 18 and energy should be channeled to tackling major challenges confronting Nigeria. Read tweets below… Prof Ishaq Akintola is not bright.This man is not bright at all.Look at his head, it's surely empty.As a Yoruba person, I'm beyond ashamed, I'm mortified.The institution dat made him a professor needs probing.He disgraces MURIC, Muslims & Nigerians wit each breath he draws. pic.twitter.com/s1y8OIsqbW #BBNaija is a paid TV station, if you don't like it watch Nat Geo Wild. Some of our Moral leaders are assaulting Women & getting protected. MURIC where is this energy when there is suffering & killing in the land? https://t.co/mp9P2eV3rN I have an idea for a Small Business reality TV show. Who has MURIC’s email address. Perhaps they can sponsor us with N20 million 🙂 I'm not really a big fan of BBN but MURIC calling on Buhari to ban the TV show is another example of misplaced priorities.#BBNaijia I think MURIC has a point in saying #BBNaija should be banned. This is an issue of National emergency if you ask me.#BBNaija is not only distracting us from tackling Fulani herdsmen and corruption in Nigeria, it also infringes on the Religious right of some peace-loving Muslims MURIC needs to know the difference between free-to-air TV and subscription based TV. DSTV where Big Brother is airing is a subscription based TV where you go to pay to consume content, because you want to not because you don't have other options. When will Muric tell Buhari to stop northerners from marrying toddlers and teenagers. https://t.co/JGD9PbJckP