Youth groups have asked President Muhammadu Buhari to appoint a youth as minister of youths. The groups are under the umbrella of Coalition of members of the APC Presidential Campaign Council, the Buhari Support Organisation (BSO), support groups under Nigerian Youth Corporate Social Responsibility Fund (NYCSRF) with Coalition of Young Candidates (CYCFGN). This, the groups said, is needed to achieve the inclusion of youths in governance and bringing on a team in line with the Next Level agenda. They also sent a 100-man list to the president of youths in their groups with student leaders In the 774 LGAs in the Federation. Speaking during a press briefing in Abuja, the national leader of the coalition Hon. Vincent Ubani said, having a youth as a minister will help address several issues that have separated the ‘youth constituency ‘and had unsettled the nation. In a letter addressed to the president on the 1st of July 2019, the group had stated. “Your Excellency, at this point we have carefully selected young people, youths and unemployed graduates who are entrepreneurs and technocrats selected from the 36 states and FCT to make sure that we present the best of all teams needed to achieve not only inclusion of youth In governance but a team who’s goals are to see that your Next Level agenda is record in the history book of Nigeria as the best and the only tenure that turned the history book around for a new dawn, a new era shall emerge after your watch In 2023. “However, we have held many meetings both at the Secretary to the Government of the Federation {SGFL Buhari Support Organization (BSO) and APC Presidential Campaign Council and we have come to final resolution to reduce our demands for ministerial slots to only but one slot which Is the Minister of Youth and Sports Development while appealing to the presidency that Hon. Chief Ambassador Vincent Anthony Ubani should be appointed as the next Minister of Youth and Sports Development as he is the National Youth Mandate In the 774 LGAs of the Federation and the renaming names be included In your political appointments in any level of governance. “Your Excellency, In line to the 100 man list that was transmitted to your office on the 2 of April. 2019 forty (40) man list first came into your office and copied to the SGF while on the 9th of May. 2019 sixty man list was transmitted to complete it to a total of One Hundred (100) names for the Inclusion of youth in governance, the list cuts across the federation and the list includes members of the Coalition of members of the APC Presidential Campaign Council, the BSO support groups under (NYCSRF) with Coalition of Young Candidates (CYCFGN) of over 1000 Young candidates that contested for the 2019 general election from over 90 political parties of which Hon. Chief Ambassador Vincent Anthony Ubani being the National Leader of all Youth and young people with student leaders In the 774 LGAs in the Federation. The Nation