Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Federal lawmaker representing Kogi west senatorial district, Senator Dino Melaye, on Thursday said he is contesting the governorship election in the state to rescue the state from total collapse and build a new Kogi. Melaye who is one of the governorship aspirants of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), also said he is poised to contest the presidential election in 2027 after winning the Kogi governorship. The lawmaker said this in Lokoja, the state capital during a media parley organised by the Kogi state council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) after his meeting with the members of the executive of the party at the party secretariat. He said he decided to contest the election because of the present state of Kogi that he said called for concern among well-meaning people of the state. According to him, the state in the last three and half years had been governed by people that lacked the idea to take it to the promised Land. He said he had in the last few years been contributing to the development of the state and the country at large, saying no member of the national assembly had the number of motions and bills he had sponsored since becoming a lawmaker. Melaye at the NUJ said his desires to govern the state is not only to rescue the state from the incumbent but to build a ‘New Kogi’ ruled by Ideas. He said, “Kogi State is not witnessing democracy, what we are witnessing is a government of the greedy, by the greedy and for the greedy; best put as ‘greedocracy’. “But when I come on board as governor, I shall build a new Kogi State where ideals will revolutionise the state. “My administration will banish hunger from the state. Kogi has no business to be poor. I shall look into agriculture and technology to turn around the economic fortune of the state.” Melaye averred that amongst the aspirants in PDP, he remained the best and most experienced to rescue the state from the present occupant. “I have no father, uncle, In-law or godfathers to pilot my ambition, but I have the requisite requirements to face the APC candidate in the election “I’m also not in the race to bamboozle you, I’m in the race to take the state to the promised land. In four year, we shall make the state the economic envy of other states. “I fear nobody, I only respect human beings. I have been arrested 18 times within the last three year and I have 12 cases in court, but I’m still standing, I have what it takes to face and rescue the state from Yahaya Bello.”  