By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday transmitted the names of his 43 ministerial nominees to the senate for screening and confirmation. The senate President Senator Ahmed Lawan read the letter from Mr President on the floor of the senate and further said that the senate would all that is required to give the screening and confirmation accelerated hearing. In line with this promise, the senate not only postpone the commencement of recess by one week, the red chamber also altered its standing rule to allow for sitting to be extended to Mondays and Fridays as well as sitting beyond the normal closing hours of 2pm to even up to 10pm. The screening has entered day three today is expected to be concluded on or before Thursday next week. Below are the names of the 43 nominees and their brief profile: Dr. Okechukwu Ogah (Abia) A Consultant Physician/Cardiologist ( Special Grade) University College Hospital, Ibadan. he served as Commissioner/ Chief Executive officer, Ministry of Health and member of Abia State Executive Council (August 2010- May 2015) Muhammadu Musa Bello (Adamawa) Born in 1959, Adamawa state. He is a graduate of Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, where he obtained a B.Sc. in Management with a major in Banking and Finance in 1980 as well as an MBA in the same field. Sen. Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom) A former Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Senate’s Minority Leader. He was also Governor of Akwa Ibom State of Nigeria from May 29, 2007 to May 29, 2015. Chris Ngige (Anambra) Born in August 1952, was governor of Anambra State in Nigeria from 29 May 2003 to 17 March 2006 (PDP). He is currently a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) He was elected Senator for Anambra Central Constituency in April 2011 . Sharon Ikeazor (Anambra) Was born into the family of Chief Chimezie Ikeazor, SAN, of Obosi, Anambra State, the founder of the Legal Aid for the Poor Scheme in Nigeria. She graduated with an LLB Hons in 1984 and was called to the Nigerian Bar in 1985. Adamu Adamu (Bauchi) A Nigerian accountant, writer, former journalist and a Former Minister of Education. He was appointed minister by President Muhammadu Buhari on November 2015 and that was his first ever presidential appointment. Mrs Mariam Yalwaji Katagum (Bauchi) Ambassador, Permanent Delegate of Nigeria to UNESCO She holds a Masters in Administration and Planning from the University of Lagos, (B.A.) in English, Graduate Certificate in Education at the Ahmadu Bello University. Timipre Sylva (Bayelsa) Fmr. Governor of Bayelsa State and He was a member of the Rivers State House of Assembly in the 1990s. Sen. George Akume (Benue) He was the Minority Leader of the Senate from June 2011 to June 2015. He was also the Governor of Benue State from 29 May 1999 to 29 May 2007. Mustapha Baba Shehuri (Borno) Fmr. Minister of State for Power, Works and Housing. Born July 4th , 1961. He graduated from the University of Maiduguri in 2007 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Sociology and Anthropology. Goddy Jedy-Agba (Cross River) A farmer, Bureaucrat and has a Degree in International Studies from Ahmadu Bello University, Samaru, Zaria in 1983. He holds a Master’s Degree in International Law and Diplomacy from the University of Lagos, Akoka in 1989. Festus Keyamo (SAN) Born in January 1970, A Senior Advocate of Nigeria, columnist and human rights activist, he received a Bachelor of Law degree in 1992 from Ambrose Alli University at Ekpoma, Edo State and was called to the Nigerian Bar on December 1993. Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu (Ebonyi) Fmr. Minister of Science and Tech. He graduated with a first class degree in Chemical Engineering in 1976 (UNILAG), and obtained a PhD in Chemical engineering in 1980 from University of California, Berkeley. Dr. Osagie Ehanire (Edo) Fmr. Minister for state Health. studied Medicine at Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich in Germany qualifying as a physician and went to Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland where he obtained postgraduate Diploma in Anaesthetics. Clement Ik Anade Agba (Edo) Fmr. Commissioner for Environment and Public Utility, Edo and also briefly served as Commissioner for Lands, Survey and Housing. Otunba Richard Adebayo (Ekiti) First Executive Governor of Ekiti State from May 29, 1999 to May 29, 2003. He attended University of Lagos where he studied Law and obtained (LL.B Hons). Geoffrey Onyeama (Enugu) Fmr. Foreign Affairs Minister. Holds a (B.A) degree in Political Science, Columbia University, New York (1977), (B.A) degree in Law from St John’s College, Cambridge (1980). Masters of Law (LL.M), London School of Economics. Dr. Ali Isa Ibrahim Pantami (Gombe) Studied Computer Science at Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University in Bauchi, Nigeria, gaining a BTech in 2003 Session and an MSc in 2008, before obtaining a PhD from Robert Gordon University, Aberdeen, Scotland. Emeka Nwajuba (Imo) He was called to the Nigerian bar in 1989, pursued his LLM at University of Lagos and PhD at University of Jos. He had served as House of Representatives committee chairman on Land, Housing and works from 1999 to 2003. Eng. Suleiman H Adamu (Jigawa) Fmr. Minister for eater resources and he has a B. Eng. (Hons.) Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, 1984· M. Sc. (Project Management) Univ. of Reading, UK, 2004. Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed (Kaduna) Fmr. Minister of State for Budget and National Planning… BSc Accounting (1981) Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria; IJMB ‘A’ Levels (1979) from SBS/ABU Zaria; and WASC ‘O’ Level in 1977 from Queen Amina College, Kaduna. Dr. Mohammed Mahmoud (Kaduna) Fmr. Chairman, Universal Basic Education Commission. Sabo Nanono (Kano) Mr. Nanono, who was a former chairman of the All Farmers Association of Nigeria, in Kano… Ahmadu Bello University [ABU], Zaria… B.Sc [Business Administration – 1972. University of Wisconsin, Madison, USA. Maj. Gen. (RTD) Bashir Magashi (Kano) is a lawyer and a graduate of Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) Zaria. He holds a national award of CFR. appointed Governor of Sokoto State in Nigeria from August 1990 to January 1992 during military era. Sen. Hadi Sirika (Katsina) Fmr. Minister of Aviation, former pilot, Former General Manager Katsina State Transport Authority, Former Member House of Representative, and Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Abubakar Malami (Kebbi) lawyer and Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN). He is Nigeria’s immediate past Minister for Justice and Attorney-General. He graduated from Usmanu Danfodiyo University where he studied Law and was called to the bar in 1992. Rahmatu Tijani (Kogi) Graduated from Ahmadu Bello University with a degree in Urban & Regional Planning. She also has an M.PA in Public Administration from Nasarawa State University, Keffi. Lai Mohammed (Kwara) He earned a bachelor’s degree in French from Obafemi Awolowo University, in the year 1975. He proceeded to obtain a Law degree from the University of Lagos, and then Nigerian Law School. Gbemisola Saraki (Kwara) attended the University of Sussex in the United Kingdom and earned a bachelor’s degree in Economics. She is the female legislator with the highest number of sponsored bills in Nigeria. Babatunde Raji Fashola (Lagos) A senior Advocate of Nigeria, Fmr. Governor of Lagos and Fmr. Minister of Power, Works and Housing. He studied Law at the University of Benin from where he graduated with a Bachelor of Laws, LL.B.(Hon), degree in 1987. Sen. Adeleke O. Mamora (Lagos) He obtained a B.Sc, Health Sciences, Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) University of Ife, Ile-Ife and became a Health Practitioner. Senator for the Lagos East constituency (2007). Mohammed H. Abdullahi (Nasarawa) Fmr. Secretary to the State Government, Nasarawa State. Fmr. Attorney General & Commissiomer for Justice Nasarawa. Usman Danfodiyo University Sokoto LLB/BL (1990), Nigerian Bar Association 1991. Ambassador Zubairu Dada (Niger) He is a diplomat and also an Ambassador, Embassy of Nigeria, Warsaw Poland, since 1999. Arch. Olamilekan Adegbite (Ogun) Former Commissioner for Works & Infrastructure, Ogun State. Sen. Tayo Alasoadura (Ondo) obtained the Association of Chartered Accountants (ACA) of England Certificate as well as that of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria(ICAN) All in 1974. Rauf Aregbesola (Osun) Fmr. Governor of Osun state, Fmr. Lagos State Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure. Sunday Dare (Oyo) Bachelor of Science (BSc.) in International Studies from Ahmadu Bello University in 1991. He then proceeded to obtain a Master of Arts in Law and Diplomacy from the University of Jos. Pauline Tallen (Plateau) Fmr. Deputy Governor Plateau state, she was appointed Minister of State for science and technology (2007) and She got a degree in sociology at the University of Jos in 1982. Rotimi Amaechi (Rivers) Fmr. Governor Rivers State, Fmr. Minister of Transport. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree (Honours) in English Studies and Literature from the University of Port Harcourt in 1987. Muhammadu Maigari Dingyadi (Sokoto) Fmr. Chairman Chairman, NCCE Governing Board. Eng Saleh Mamman (Taraba) Mamman Kwagyang Saleh currently works at the Agricultural Extension and Rural Development, Ahmadu Bello University. Mamman does research in Agricultural Plant Science, Food Science and Animal Science. Abubakar D. Aliyu (Yobe) has served as Deputy Governor of the state for the past 10 years, making him the longest serving deputy governor in Nigeria’s political history. Sa’adiya Umar Faruq (Zamfara) Federal Commissioner of National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons. She has a Bsc. in Business Administration (Actuarial Science), Master’s degree in International Affairs and Diplomacy in 2008.