Following the announcement that Big Brother Naija will on Tuesday introduce a new twist to the ongoing ‘Pepper Dem’ reality show, there are rumours that two controversial Instagram users would be introduced by Big Brother to spice up #bbnaija show. Ebuka Obi-Uchendu, host of #BBNaija on Sunday during Live eviction had told viewers to anticipate the biggest twist of the season on Tuesday by 7 pm [Today] But rumours emerged on Monday that the twist will have two female housemates introduced to the show. However, checks by DAILY POST shows that the housemates are likely to be Christiana Kayode, aka Berbiedoll and Cynthia, aka Cy4luv212 on social media. The rumour is now close to fact as one of the proposed new housemates, Berbiedoll has already added BBNaija link to her bio. This development has generated reactions from Nigerians on social media even though Big brother is yet to confirm the development. Recall that Big Brother recently shocked the housemates when he returned Tacha and Seyi who were believed by the other competitors to have been evicted. Here are some comments gathered from Twitter: @Anyberrie, “If it’s true Cy4luv and Berbiedoll are the fake housemates coming in, Then e go red o. They’re actually friends with Mercy but biggie might give them a script to disrupt d Icy ship, and Cy4luv will play Mercy dirty regardless because that girl is a sucker for cheap fame.” @_Lusidee, “If this is true then I’m eager to see how Tacha would react to this. Fellow IG celebs.” @Lawaladenike, “Berbiedoll (the one on yellow) is mercy’s friend and Cy4luv. I ponder if this is true, these girls go pepper oo.” @Feez_Tonaz “Berbiedoll has already added the BigBrother link to her bio on Instagram. Issorai.” @ErhinvonaB “So Cy4luv and Berbiedoll are the two housemates coming in tomorrow and they v massive fan base and known as top-class runs babes. Just wondering the authenticity of the show because now it seems it’s through connections they picked all these housemates.” @ololade_j “I can’t wait to see the twist tonight! Cy4luv12 and Berbiedoll are hella pretty! The housemates will be tensed, Berbiedoll is rooting for Mercy on her IG though. So I don’t know how that will work.” Source