Following the now-viral news that newly elected governor of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde, has made public his asset which amounts to N48b, Nigerians have reacted. Nigerians while reacting have hailed him for being the first governor of the state to tow that path. What Nigerians are saying: His Excellency, Seyi Makinde has fulfilled his promise. He is wealthy like Roman Abramovich Hardworking like RonaldoAnd humble like Messi In other news, our Daura Bakayoko of "Integrity FC" is yet to fulfill his own similar promise till date. https://t.co/zrO5x2DMMF Seyi Makinde assets breakdown. Cash at hand (Naira) : 234mCash (Dollars):$30k Properties (Naira) : 2.64bn Properties (Dollars) : $4.4m Properties (Rands) :R4.4mCompanies (Naira) : NGN 48.1bn Company additional assets(Eurobond and loan notes): NGN3..3bn Seyi Makinde was the highest INDIVIDUAL donor towards resolving the LAUTECH crisis while Ajimobi and Aregbesola (of SAME PARTY) allowed it to fester.The Bourdillon king of bullion vans was also the Prochancellor.Just for the records Look how Seyi Makinde just calmly and confidently declared his assets. Your gatekeeper of integrity CAN NEVER! Oyo Gov, Seyi Makinde declares his assets publicly.We are still begging your gap-tooth MCM who promised to declare his assets to release his assets declaration form,voicemail.Integrity isn't by shouting integrity 4 times a day.While shielding Gandollars I think its save to say! Oyo state has gotten themselves a perfect GOVERNOR they have been craving for Moving from LAM to LADOJA to the catastrophic AKALA and disappointing and disastrous AJIMOBI SEYI MAKINDE looks like a bargain! I wish him the best all things perfect — Omighty (@Mighty_20) July 16, 2019 Oyo Gov, Seyi Makinde declares his assets publicly. We are still begging your gap-tooth MCM who promised to declare his assets to release his assets declaration form,voicemail. Integrity isn’t by shouting integrity 4 times a day. While shielding Gandollars — IKECHUKWU (@iykimo) July 15, 2019 Seyi Makinde is actually very rich. Man has been spending billions on campaign since 2007. ANPP In 2007, PDP In 2011, SDP in 2015. And he spent mad money for these campaigns, distributed motorcycles and cars, different empowerment programmes. — Adesola (@Solar_unique) July 15, 2019 Details of Seyi makinde’s asset declaration. He made it public without compulsion. He has won my heart completely and I will be rooting and praying for him. It’s a new dawn in Oyo State. pic.twitter.com/BnJ9gvdQav — kay (@kharyourdey101) July 15, 2019