Speaking on Thursday at a rally held to show solidarity for his administration, Obaseki said those who are intent on splitting the state house of assembly cannot stop him. A disagreement between him and Adams Oshiomhole, national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), had split the assembly into two. On June 17, nine lawmakers loyal to the governor took 15 loyalists of Oshiomhole unaware by organising a secret inauguration. SEE Just in: Knocks, Kudos as Obaseki Performs Midnight Inauguration of Before then, Oshiomhole was accused of plotting to install his loyalists as principal officials of the assembly after which Obaseki, whom he influenced his emergence, would be removed. Addressing his supporters on Thursday, the governor said some “Abuja politicians” are already heating up the polity in the state and trying to pull him out”. “You know what is happening. I want to assure you that what has been happening in Edo state for the past several months will not distract us. We will continue to be focused,” he said. “I did not change cars; I did not buy an official car for myself until after 18 months because we did not have the money and the little money I had, I felt should be used for the people and not the governor. “We are tired of our children being short-changed. After 20 years of democracy, we cannot continue to behave as if we do not have democracy. “We have not started politics, they want to pull us out early. INEC has not announced time-table for Edo election, they have only come out with timetable for Kogi and Bayelsa and even in those states, they (politicians) have not started heating up the polity as much as they are doing in Edo. “I want to leave you with these words that those people who are parading themselves, who are speaking on the internet for themselves and their pocket, we are watching you. For those people who have gone outside, Abuja politicians, to tell people from outside to come and invade Edo, split our house of assembly, we are waiting for you. “We have no fear at all, we are resolved that we will continue to do what is best for our state and country. We have no doubt that we are on the right path; we know that God is with us, we know that people are with us. So, if all these people are with us, who can stop us? Anybody that can stop us should come, we dare you. “So, those Abuja politicians whom we refuse to send back and for those who got there by mistake, they can’t disrupt the peace of Edo. We will not let them. Nobody can stop the progress in Edo state.” TheCable