By Nana Musa Abuja – A medical expert, Dr Omale Garba, has warned men against excessive intake of alcoholand smoking, saying they could also be factors that lead to low sperm count. Garba, a medical doctor in Bwari General Hospital Abuja, gave the warning in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Abuja. He said low sperm count in men is medically called “Oligospermia” meaning the sperm count is not up to the level where a man can impregnate a woman. The doctor also said that lifestyle was one of the factors responsible for low sperm count, saying excessive alcohol and smoking weretoxic to the sperm cell and could affect the sperm count. He explained that the normal sperm count according to World Health Organisation (WHO) is between 20 million and 200 million per millimetre, “any sperm count less than 20 million per millimetre is considered low.” He said there were several factors that may be responsible for low sperm count, including infections like viral, bacterial, fungal or Sexually TransmittedDiseases such as gonorrhoea, hepatitis B and C. Garba added that HIV, urinary tract infection, among others, could also lead to low sperm count. He said that another important factor could be any damage to the testis as a result of surgery at the genitalia testicular. “Trauma or injuries to the testis is another factor” “Low sperm count can occur between the age of 15 years and 55 years, that’s usually the reproductive age” Garba said. The doctor said that the treatment of low sperm count depend on the cause, adding that with proper diagnosis, it could be treated accordingly. He said that “if a man is suffering from low sperm count as a result of lifestyle; such a person will need to stop or modify it to get it corrected. “If it’s as a result of surgery, he will need to see a urologist for correction.” Garba added that if the actual cause was unknown, drugs could be given to boost the sperm “and it’s usually effective.” He also advised men to reduce intake of sugar.