…as Senate Says Fight Between Minister and Minister of State is as a Result of Ego Conflict By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Ministerial nominee from Kano state, Major General Bashir Magashi on Thursday noted that the relationship between Service Chiefs are not cordial but promised to look into it in the event that he emerges the minister of Defence. The is also coming as the senate on Thursday said that the fight witnessed between minister and minister of state in the last cabinet was as a result of ego conflict. The mild drama ensued at day two of the ministerial screening on Thursday at the red chamber when the Minority Leader of the Senate, Senator Eyinnaya Abaribe observed that the schedules of ministers and ministers of state should be made clear so as to avoid that kind of fight witnessed in the transport and petroleum ministries. However, the Senate President, Senator Ahmed Lawan while reacting to Senator Abaribe’s statement said that there was no fight in the petroleum ministry because Buhari was Minister of Petroleum Resources. But Danjuma Goje through order 43, explained that there was a clear cut duties for minister and minister of state. He further said,”as one time minister of state, I can tell you that the jobs of minister and minister of state are well cut out. The Senate Leader, Yahaya Abdullahi, however, noted that the fight between minister and minister of state was as a result of ego conflict not because of non clear cut schedule of duty. Asked what he will do if made the Minister of Defence as regard the fight among the service chiefs, Major General Bashir Magashi, a nominee from Kano State noted that although their relationship is not cordial, but added that they will look into it. “The relationship between Service Chiefs is not cordial.. Each Service Chief is trying to please the nation. They are individually blowing their trumpets at the end of each war.. There is command structure now seen as addendum weakness. “The military is ready to acknowledge performance but won’t want to admit failure. They don’t have manpower. Operation conducted single handedly. The Service Chiefs are trying to express their capability to the people, who don’t understand the concept of their operation. We will ensure the restriction,” he said. Sundiata Post recalls that out of the 14 nominees screened Thursday, nine were told to bow and go. Those who were told to bow and go, were, Senator Tayo Alasoadura (Ondo), Abubakar Aliyu (Yobe), Mustapha Shehuri (Borno), Timipre Silva (Bayelsa), Ramatu Aliyu (Kogi), Otumba Richard Adebayo (Ekiti), Muhammadu Bello (Adamawa), Sa’adiya Farouk (Zamfara) and Zainab Ahmed (Kaduna) The reason for the bow and go given to them was that some were former lawmakers, other former governors, while a two female nominees were also given the bow and go privilege on gender friendly consideration. Also, the nominees that were not given that privilege, but were made to go through questions and answers, were, Major Magashi (Kano), Ambassador Zubairu Dada (Niger), Mohammed Abdullahi (Nasarawa) and Sunday Dare (Oyo).