… As PDP Members Pass Vote of Confidence on Gbajabiamila By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The PDP caucus of the House of Representatives on Monday urged the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party to rescind its decision on the suspension of Hon Ndudi Elumelu and other elected minority leaders of the party. This is also as the PDP members in the House of Representatives have passed votes of confidence on the leadership of the House of Representatives in National Assembly, Abuja. Recall that PDP had shortly after their election as minority leaders suspended them on the ground that they were not the ones nominated by the party for the minority Positions. The minority caucus members made the call at a press briefing at the national assembly complex today while reacting to the issue of minority leadership of the House of Representatives. The spokeman for the PDP caucus, Hon. Legor Idiagbo said in reference to house rule order 7 rule 8, which states”members of the minority parties in the house shall nominate from among them, the minority leader, minority whip, deputy minority leader and deputy minority whip”. He said, the members of the minority parties adhered to the provision in the selection of Hon. Ndudi Elumelu, Hon. Tobi Okechukwu, Hon. Gideon Gwani 4. Hon. Adesegun Adekoya as minority leader, deputy minority leader, minority whip and deputy minority whip respectively. He said the speaker was communicated the resolution by majority members of the minority caucus on the 2nd, July and was announced on the floor of the house on the 3rd, July 2019. The PDP caucus is calling on the NWC of the PDP to rescind it’s decision of suspending the minority leader, Hon. Ndidi Elumelu and six others. Similarly, the minority parties passes a vote of confidence on the newly constituted minority leadership. The spokesman of the minority caucus said that the members decision to constitute the minority leadership of the 9th House of Representatives is in consonance with House standing order as mentioned above, which is a derivative of section 60 of the 1999 Constitution as amended.