A Nigerian soldier has reportedly murdered a driver who works with one of the popular transport companies in Benin. According to a Daily Post report, officers of Edo State Police Command have arrested a soldier who allegedly stabbed a driver to death at Okene town in Kogi State. The deceased driver, Mr Ogbimi of one of the popular transport companies in Benin city, Big Joe Motors, was allegedly attacked with a jackknife by Lance Corporal Moses Oguche of 4 Brigade about 11 am on Sunday, July 21, 2019. It was gathered that late Mr Ogbimi and a mechanic had gone to recover a broken down vehicle belonging to his transport company when the unfortunate ugly incident occurred over a minor issue that would have been resolved amicably. It was gathered that trouble started when a towing van that was being driven by the deceased driver and a silver-coloured Nissan Premera with plate number Abuja- KWL 811-AP, belonging to the military man collided. The soldier, who was on mufti allegedly committed the act during a spontaneous argument that ensued between them. It was further gathered that the enraged soldier, on killing the driver, anticipated mob attack, quickly jumped into his vehicle and fled the scene. During the melee, some passersby launched a vehicular chase after the fleeing soldier who finally abandoned his car and ran into a bush behind a private building at Agbede town in Edo State. He was said to have made a call to his colleagues at a military base in Auchi before he was taken into police custody along with his vehicle at Agbede Divisional Police Headquarters. The situation almost went out of control when some armed soldiers who stormed Agbede police station in two Hilux vans to rescue their embattled colleague were prevented by residents of the community and policemen on ground. Sources hinted that the Commissioner of Police in Edo, CP DanMallam Mohammed who was promptly notified, ordered immediate transfer of the suspect to the state police command headquarters in Benin City. Confirming the incident, the commissioner of police, Edo State, CP DanMallam Mohammed assured that justice would be served in the brutal murder as nobody is above the law.“The case is under investigation, is a case of murder, he is a Nigerian and he is not above the law.“I assure that justice will be done in this case,” CP DanMallam stated. The Public Relations Officer for 4 Brigade, Nigeria Army, Capt. Maidawa Ibrahim Mohammed said,” How did you know that he is serving in 4 Brigade? If he went to Auchi on a course, call the Army PRO in Auchi. Forward his name and other details to me on this number. I will get back to you when I return.” Contacted, Mr Jonathan who is the Personal Assistant to the Chief Executive Officer of Big Joe Motors, Mr Sunny Joseph Osayande described the incident as unfortunate. He revealed that the management of the transport company and the deceased relatives had been invited by the police at the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID). He, however, promised to reach his boss for further comments. Source