By Rabiu Sani Jere. -. Borno Government has distributed fertilisers, seeds and other inputs to 100, 000 farmers for the 2019 cropping season. Gov. Babagana Zulum, who inaugurated the exercise at Muna Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), said the gesture was designed to assist farmers enhance access to inputs and encourage agricultural activities. Zulum said that the gesture was also to encourage farmers to produce what to eat; reduce dependence on food assistance, and provide livelihood as well as encourage social and economic development of the state. He said that the state government had made investment to reinvigorate agriculture and provide job opportunities through effective utilisation of agricultural resources. The governor also visited Zabalmari farming community and announced plans by his administration to construct access road to Golamari-Dusuman-Zabalmari-Gongolon farming communities. Zulum said: “The cardinal objectives of my administration is to protect lives and property of our people including the military and other security personnel. “Effective synergy between the military and the police is imperative. We will support the military and security agencies to protect farmers to provide access to their farmlands.” He called on the communities to support the military and provide useful information on suspicious persons and movement in their communities. The governor also pledged to rehabilitate clinic; construct additional schools and deploy teachers to the community. Meanwhile, Zulum has directed principal officers and other personnel of the Jere Local Government Council to relocate to the council headquarters, Kaddamari. Zulum, who visited the council in company of the military commanding officer in-charge of the area, said that the decision was imperative to fast track resettlement of the community. He explained that the state government would work with the military to strengthen security as well as protect lives and property. According to him, the state government will provide operational vehicles and equipment to members of the Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF) to enhance its operations. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Kaddamari is one of the communities liberated by the military from the Boko Haram insurgents. Zulum was accompanied in the visit on Tuesday by the Commissioner of Police, Mr Muhammad Aliyu; the Commander, Nigeria Security and Civil Ddfence Corpse (NSCDC), Mr Ibrahim Abdullahi and heads of custom, prison and immigration service in the state.