IBADAN The Chief Press Secretary to the Governor of Oyo State, Engineer Seyi Makinde, Mr Taiwo Adisa has reacted to the criticism raised by the opposition party, All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state over the loan of N10bn requested by the governor to improve infrastructure in the state. Adisa, speaking with journalists in Ibadan on Wednesday on the development, stated that the request of the said amount was “a clear evidence of the run down infrastructure we met on ground on May 29, 2019.” Recall that the opposition party had earlier raised objection on the request, describing it as an “anticipatory looting”. The governor’s spokesman, while emphasising that APC in Oyo state is a party of shameless people who are busy running their mouths after they stand accused of mindless looting and unconscionable governance in the state, said: “we can only engage them in discussions on this matter until the opposition party braces itself up to the level of accountability being exhibited by Governor Makinde.” Adisa, however, assured that the people of the state would, in no distant future, begin to see the results in the open administration of Governor Seyi Makinde. His words: “It won’t be like the past administration that awarded N7bn contract to a faceless organisation which immediately bolted after taking N2bn of money belonging to the People of Oyo state. We are not like them. Just in eight years the immediate past government doubled the Oyo state debts.” Speaking in the same vein, Adisa who argued that the opposition has nothing to say other than rant endlessly on the giant strides of the current government, maintained that “If they are serious at accountability and probity, why can’t the chairman or their spokesman speak on officials who served in the eight year misrule they foisted on Oyo people between 2011 and 2019? Why can’t the officials that served under the past government publicly declare their assets like Governor Makinde did. There is no law that stops them from doing so.” The Oyo State House of Assembly, on Tuesday, had approved the N10 billion loan request made by the Governor to improve infrastructure in the state. However, the loan is to be obtained from First Bank Plc, United Bank for Africa and Unity Bank Plc.