By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Independent
National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said that only 21 of the 69
recommendations of foreign mission can be implemented internally. Recall that the foreign
missions made the recommendations after their observation and monitoring the
2019 general election to improve future electoral processes in the country. The
commission’s chairman, Yakubu Mahmood, said this on Monday, during the post
2019 general elections review with the media. Mr
Mahmood said most of the recommendations made by the missions would be
implementable only if there is an amendment to the Electoral Act by the
National Assembly. Foreign
missions including the European Union Election Observation Mission (EU EOM),
the Common Wealth, the National Democratic Institute (NDI)/International
Republican Institute (IRI) had made separate recommendations in June to INEC on
the lapses that marred the 2019 elections. The EU
made 30 recommendations, CW issued 24 while NDI/IRI jointly made 15
recommendations. The
INEC, after reviewing the recommendations, said only nine of EU’s
recommendations can be implemented; eight of CW’s would be implemented; and
four of the NDI/IRI’s recommendations would be implemented. Mr
Mahmood, however, explained that in many cases, amendment to the electoral
legal frameworks is actually beyond INEC. “We have to go to the National
Assembly.” He
further said the commission was committed to ensuring that some of the
recommendations would be implemented by administrative actions in the
forthcoming Bayelsa and Kogi governorship elections scheduled for November 16,
2019 and the first by- election for August 3 in Pengana constituency, Plateau
State. INEC’s
voter education commissioner, Festus Okoye, said constitutional and legal
alterations alone cannot solve the challenges of the electoral process, except
there is also a change in attitude by major stakeholders to play by the rules
in the electoral process. Culled
from Premium Times.