By Bogumil Wrobel My one line answer is: invest money in cash paying assets. My answer is based on the assumption that your goal is to get financially independent. I will show you a structured step by step process that can give you financial freedom. Enjoy the answer and start building financial independence today. Financial independence Financial Independence is a stage in life where you no longer trade time for money. You have assets that pay you cash and cover your expenses. Winning grand lottery prize is not Financial Independence (by the way, what are the chances). There is a structured process to follow. Anyone can do it. Most people want the convenience of financial freedom. Only a few go through the inconvenience of achieving it. Your roadmap to Financial Independence I have divided the investment journey that leads to Financial Independence into five stages. I have gone through each of the stages myself. You can find more about Financial Independence here: An ultimate guide to kickstart your journey to financial independence Stage 1 – POOR – this is where your annual expenses are equal your income The first stage is called Poor because it represents a poor persons budget i. e. whatever you earn you spend. I am using poor here in a sense that does not necessarily mean that you work for the smallest salary possible. It represents a state of mind. You can earn hundreds of thousands of dollars and still be at that stage. Key risks – there is a couple of key risks in this stage that you need to acknowledge and manage them along the way. Next best action – you need to follow those four baby steps and make sure that you start monitoring and controlling your personal finance Stage 2 – COMFORT ZONE – this is where your annual expenses are lower than your income. As a result, you are running a surplus budget. I have called the second stage a Comfort Zone because it gives you an illusion of comfort i. e. you earn more than you spend on an annual basis. You are happy with your current situation. Key risks – there is a couple of key risks in this stage that you need to acknowledge and manage them along the way. Next best action – you need to get yourself out of the comfort zone. ‘Be willing to be uncomfortable. Be comfortable being uncomfortable. It may get tough, but it is a small price to pay for living a dream’ Peter McWilliams What makes you comfortable will ruin you. What makes you uncomfortable is the only way to grow. One of the most dangerous phases of lives of people is when they rich their comfort zone. The middle class often reaches it and never decides to leave it. It is great to have money to pay for your house. It is exciting to drive that brand new car. You think you have it all. Things are not going to change. It will always be this way. Wrong. Stage 3 – PREPARATION – this is where you generate a surplus budget, and you have managed to dispose of all or almost all your bad debt The third stage is the preparation stage because there are certain things you need to do before you move on and start investing. A single most important thing here is to eliminate bad debt. Key risks – there is a couple of key risks in this stage that you need to acknowledge and manage them along the way. Next best action – you need to follow those three baby steps and make sure that you get prepared to investing Stage 4 – ASSET BUILDING – Asset Building – this is where you have managed to use your surplus budget to buy assets that generate additional income over time Stage number four is called asset building stage. Key risks – there is a couple of key risks in this stage that you need to acknowledge and manage them along the way. Next best action – you need to follow those three baby steps and make sure that you spend most of your money on assets and use your time to learn new skills Stage 5 – FREEDOM – Stage Five – this is where you have acquired enough assets that they pay entirely for your expenses The final stage is called freedom because you have the peace of mind to make decisions, to shape your future to choose whatever and whenever you want to do it. Final thoughts – change your mindset ‘Too many people spend money they have not earned to buy things they do not want to impress people they do not like’ Will Rogers. Do not let your emotions control you when it comes to spending money. Financially Independent people do not care if their neighbor changes car every year. It does not impress them if their friends have just build a new pool and hold parties every weekend. Financially Independent people know for a fact that emotions are a bad advisor when it comes to money. They prefer not to follow general trends in their social cycles. They do not need to impress anyone with what they have bought because they know that you do not need to look wealthy to be wealthy. Rich people are rich because they live like the poor. On the contrary, poor people are poor because they live like they are rich. Do you want to be rich or look rich? Think about it. Further inspirations One final thing I wanted to share. You need to become skilled at making, controlling and safeguarding your money. You need to start working on your financial IQ. This will help you to understand money, make money work for you instead of you working for money. Source: Quora   