Imo State governor, Emeka Ihedioha, has distanced himself from the sealing of property belonging to his predecessor, Rochas Okorocha and his family members by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). He said that his administration has no hand in the investigation of the former governor by the anti-graft agency. The Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Chibuike Onyeukwu, in a statement made available to journalists, said, “our attention has been drawn to the press release by former Governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, on the sealing by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), of various properties belonging to his family, which, according to him, include; Rochas Foundation College and the East High College and Academy, both in Owerri, among other investments. “In the said release, the former governor had accused His Excellency, Governor Emeka Ihedioha CON, and the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, of conniving with the Commission to witch-hunt him and his family”. It continued that, “ordinarily we would not have dignified such a statement with a response, but to guard against his recourse to deliberate lies and misrepresentation of facts, we are obliged to make this rejoinder to dissociate His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha CON and his government of any complicity in the operations of the anti-graft agency. “For emphasis, this administration is founded on the respect for rule of law and due process and therefore would not stealthily petition or engage in a clandestine war against ex governor and family. It would be recalled that Governor Ihedioha has since set up committees that are looking into the various actions undertaken by the past. “It is also necessary to remind that the EFCC had, before the inauguration of this administration, begun a probe of the former governor over issues of misappropriation of the state’s funds, including; Bailout funds, Paris Club Refund, Local Government Fund and other financial crimes. It is also on record that the Commission had made public the freezing of a bank account, with a balance of over N5 billion, operated by the past administration as a result of fraudulent activities. Could Governor Ihedioha have influenced this action? “We wish to advise ex-governor Okorocha and members of his family, that rather than engage in attempts to divert attention from this probe by EFCC, to dutifully assist the Commission in their investigations, with a view to clearing themselves of the weighty allegations of malfeasance and misappropriations levelled against them by the anti-graft agency and leave the state government out of their travails”. The Nation