By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The names of former minister of state Petroleum, Dr Ibe Kachiku, minister of national planning, Udoma Udo Udoma and the interior minister, Gen Abdulrahman Dambazau were conspiciously missing in the ministerial list submitted to the senate on Tuesday. Political pundits are of the view that the reasons why these names are missing may not be unconnected with the controversies that characterised the ministries they supervised. Recall that the minister of state for petroleum, Dr Ibe Kachikwu was caught in the web of superiority tussle with the former Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Maikanti Baru who was alleged to be President Muhammadu Buhari’s eye and voice in the all powerful oil ministry. It is believed that Buhari maintained a studied silence about the feud between the duo so as not be seen to be encouraging the insubordination of Baru to Ibe Kachikwu. Others are also of the view that the corruption cases raised by the former minister of state for petroleum against the NNPC boss was an embarrassment to the federal government but decided to tolerated him to end his tenure to avoid the public condemnation that would trail his sudden removal. Former minister of national planning, Dr Udoma Udo Udoma is alleged to have lost reappointment due to the poor performance of the economy throughout his tenure. His inability to put forward a national planning policy that would rekindle hope and excite Nigerians into believing and buying into the policies of the APC-led federal government cost him his post. Another school of thought is of the view that Udoma was sacrificed to pavr way for the emergence of Senator Godswill Akpabio who is more pliable to be used to achieve any agenda the APC may so wish due to the alleged corruption charges hanging on his neck while he held sway as the governor of Akwa Ibom state for eight years. Recall also that the name of the former minister of interior, Abdulrahman Dambazau and that of fomer Athorney General and minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami featured prominently in some controversial issues that brought alleged disrepute to the federal government. One of these issues is the Abdulrahman Maina’s case which was both national and international embarrassment to a government which assumed power on the promise to fight corruption. Recall how the Head of service of the federation, Mrs Ayo Ita appeared before the national assembly committee probing the reinstatement of Maina read memos originating from the office of minister of justice and interior to mandating her office to reinstate Abdulrahman Maina with promotion. See full list of the ministerial list as submitted by Buhari to the senate: 1) Dr. Ikechukwu Ogah -Abia State 2) Muhammadu Musa – ( Adamawa State) 3) Sen Godwill Akpabio – (Akwa Ibom) 4) Dr. Chris Ngige – (Anambra state) 5) Sharon Ikepazu – (Anambra state) 6) Adamu Adamu – (Bauchi state)  7) Amb. Maryam Ktagun – (Bauchi state) 8) Timipriye Silver – (Bayelsa State) 9) Sen. Gorge Akume – (Benue state) 10) Mustapha Baba Shehuri – (Borno state) 11) Gorddy Agba – (Cross River) 12) Festus Keyamo- (Delta State) 13) Ogbonnaya Onu – (Ebonyi State) 14) Osagie Ehanire – (Edo state) 15) Clement Anade -(Edo state) 16) Otunba Richard Adeniyi Adebayo – (Ekiti State) 17) Geoffrey Onyema – (Enugu state) 18) Ali Isa Ibrahim Pantami – (Gombe state) 19) Emeka Nwajuba – (Imo state) 20) Engr. Suleiman Adamu – (Jigawa state) 21) Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed – (Kaduna state) 22) Dr. Mohammed Mahmud – (Kaduna state) 23) Sabo Nanono – (Kano state) 24) Maj. Gen Bashir Magashi (rtd) – (Kano state) 25) Sen. Hadi Sirika – (Katsina State) 26) Abubakar Malami – (Kebbi State) 27) Ramatu Tijani – (Kogi State) 28) Lai Mohammed –(Kwara State) 29) Gbemisola Saraki – (Kwara state) 30) Babatunde Raji Fasola – (Lagos state) 31) Sen Adeleke Mamora – (Lagos state) 32) Mohammed H. Abdullahi – (Nasarawa state) 33) Amb. Zubairu Dada – (Niger state) 34) Arc. Olamilekan Adegbite – (Ogun state) 35) Sen Tayo Alasoadura – (Ondo State) 36) Rauf Aregbesola – (Osun state) 37) Sunday Dare – (Oyo state) 38) Pauline Tallen – (Plateau state) 39) Rotimi Amaechi – (Rivers State) 40) Mohammed Maigari Dangadi – (Sokoto state) 41) Engr. Saleh Mamman – (Taraba state) 42) Abubakar B. Aliyu – (Yobe state) 43) Sadiya Umar Parak – (Zamfara state).