By Stella Kabruk Kaduna – The Society for Family Health (SFH), said on Tuesday that 5.2 million Long Lasting Insecticidal Nets (LLINs) would be distributed to residents across in Kaduna State between now and August as part of the campaign to end Malaria. Murtala Aminu, Demand Creation Lead officer of SFH, made the disclosure in Kaduna during a media orientation ahead of the distribution exercise. “Malaria is the most preventable public health in the country, yet it takes a lethal toll of 97 percent of Nigerians especially children under 5 years of age and pregnant women. ” Nigeria accounts for a quarter of Malaria burden in Africa and the best way for scaling up Malaria prevention is the use of long lasting insecticidal nets.” He said the 2019 nets replacement campaign began on June 23 and will end on August 21. According to him, the orientation is to provide opportunity for journalists to gain insight about the campaign, Malaria prevention and control in the state, to enhance media coverage and mobilisation of citizens. Aminu also said the organization is soliliciting for media support and contribution in the campaign to save lives and help people live better. ” Media can credibly define and articulate their concerns around Malaria especially prevention issues, through the use of the long lasting insecticidal nets.” He said that a new strategy in the distribution of the nets had been adopted for accountability and effienciency so as to get real data. ” We will be giving the nets and each net covers two people, we will mobilise people with a scan net card because that is our new technology. ” The distribution of the nets will be done in pieces and over 20,000 adhoc staff have been employed with over 2,000 distribution points in the state.” He appealed to residents to ensure they are scanned with the net card before collection. The official listed the benefit of sleeping inside the net to include protecting one from mosquito that spread Malaria, ensuring sound and undisrupted sleep. “It is easier and cheaper to hang the nets than to treat Malaria, you gain health, safe life and money when you hang and sleep inside the nets,” he added. The state lead officer said that the beneficiaries should air the nets under the shade, not sun, for a day before using it. In his remark, the Project Manager, Yusuf Mohammed said the number of nets to be distributed were higher than the ones during previous campaigns. He however noted that although residents in the state have 67 percent possession rate of the mosquito nets, its utilization was not more than 23 percent. ” We lack community participation and utilization, but from now to August, we shall be on the field performing various functions on the importance of the nets because we want to prevent maternal morbidity in the state.” (NAN)