Veteran actor, Richard Mofe-Damijo, has written an open letter to the Police Command over the r*pe allegations against one Idris Ebiloma. RMD, as he is popularly put up a post on his Instagram page on Wednesday, calling the attention of the police to the case of a man identified as Idris Ebiloma who allegedly raped a 4-year-old girl in Abuja. The actor urged the Police to prove to seek justice for the minor alleged to have been raped. It was reported that on Tuesday reported Tonto Dikeh’s outburst on Instagram about the case. Tonto shared evidence that Ebiloma raped a 4-year-old girl while calling on Nigerians to protest and seek justice for the minor at Apo court on Friday. In the light of this, RMD urged the police to investigate the matter. His letter reads: “An open letter to FCT Police Command. “Dear CP Bala Ciroma, I am hearing rumors that nearly 3 years ago, in your jurisdiction, a full grown man Mr. IDRIS EBILOMA allegedly raped a 4-year-old child. All rapes are evil, damaging and unforgivable but the rape of a child? That in itself is not only the worst form of rape but one of the most heinous crimes anyone can commit but more disheartening than the crime itself is the allegation that the police is frustrating efforts to get this innocent child the justice she so badly deserves. “With the increased spate of insecurity, abuse of personal freedom (especially by SARS) and now rape. The police cannot play ostrich and pretend to be unaware of the mood of the nation. What better time and what better way to prove that the police is indeed our friend by ensuring that the investigation and evidence(s) presented to the court are thorough and an ironclad case made against the offender. “Sir, I have never met you but I hear that you’re a good man and I am going by that assumption which is why I am writing you this open letter, hoping that the power of social media will lead it to you and trust that you will live up to your reputation and use your noble office to get KHLOE the justice she deserves. “That way she grows up having great hopes in our law enforcement and judiciary. “Sir, CP Bala, we are rooting for you to write your name in gold in Nigeria’s history by being the one who made it happen. Kind Regards, Richard Mofe-Damijo.” Source