The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has refused to comment on the case of alleged fraud involving a former governor of Akwa Ibom State, Godswill Akpabio. Akpabio first came under investigation in 2015 following accusations that he diverted over N100bn from the oil-rich state between 2007 and 2015, an allegation which he has denied. According to an interim report by the EFCC, the former governor allegedly gave a bank N1.4bn for unknown reasons. A school, St. John Paul II School, in Shelter Afrique, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, allegedly belonging to Unoma, Akpabio’s wife, was subsequently seized by the EFCC in 2017. When contacted last week, however, the EFCC’s acting Head, Media, and Publicity, Mr Tony Orilade, said he would find out if the matter was still under investigation and respond accordingly. He said, “I have not been able to find out from the relevant officer. Please, can you give me till tomorrow (Tuesday)?” When he was contacted again after Akpabio was nominated as a minister, he said there was nothing to comment about. Akpabio was alleged to have in 2013 paid N566, 883, 728.66, N441, 808,081.90 and N392, 631,943.37 as gifts to a new generation bank. The investigation is being handled by the Counter-Terrorism and General Investigation Section of the anti-graft agency. The allegations against Akpabio border on the award of bogus contracts to cronies who used the proceeds to buy several properties in Lagos and Abuja. The allegations include the alleged withdrawal of N18bn fraudulently from the state’s Federal Accounts Allocation Committee in tranches of N10m and above in a surreptitious manner to conceal their dishonest intention; spending of over N50bn state funds by the former governor during the last general elections; and alleged withdrawal of N18bn from the state’s coffers under the guise of special services, reception of very important guests and sundry items. The ex-governor is also under probe for allegedly acquiring of some assets through surrogates, including a multi-billion naira mansion at Plot 5, Ikogosi Spring Close, off Katsina-Ala Crescent, Maitama-Abuja; a multi-billion naira mansion at Plot 28 Colorado Close, Maitama, Abuja; 22 Probyn Road, Ikoyi, Lagos; Plot 23 Olusegun Aina Street, Parkview, Lagos and a multi-billion naira 25-storey building at Akin Adesola Street, Victoria Island, Lagos. Punch