By George Odok Calabar – Applicants for international passports in Calabar have commended the Passport Unit of the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) for its timely and coordinated issuance of passports. They gave the commendation on Monday in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria, at the NIS state headquarters in Calabar. Dr Joseph Abang, a lecturer at the University of Calabar, expressed happiness with the operations of the passport unit with the speed in which the passport was issued. Abang said that unlike the situation in other states he had visited for passport, the treatment, speed and convenience at the Calabar unit was commendable. He said that it took him less than four hours after biometrics capturing for his passport to be ready for collection. Miss Edemobi Ifunnaya-Gold, a corps member serving with the Press Unit of the Government House, Calabar, said that she got her international passport for her visa appointment later in the year with ease. “On arrival at the Passport Unit in Calabar, I met many people waiting for application and collection of their passports. The queue was orderly and it was mainly on first-come-first-served basis. “An immigration officer was detailed to ensure that there was orderliness. Indeed, the speed at which other officers were handling the processing was unbelievable. “When it got to my turn, I was ushered into the main office where I was warmly received. After all the necessary documentation, my details were uploaded to the portal. “This stage had a slight delay because of some little challenges on the internet. While still waiting, the officers were polite in their appeal for my understanding and patience,” she explained. Ifunnaya-Gold further said that she was surprised when she was later told that her passport was ready for collection. “This was surprising because it was unlike my previous experiences in other states. Here, I applied, processed and collected my passport same day. I just couldn’t believe it,” she said. Ifunnaya-Gold commended the Deputy Comptroller and Head of the unit, Mr Immeh Nta, for efficient and effective management of the unit. (NAN)