A coalition of pro-Biafra groups comprising Biafra Independence Organization, Igbo Revolutionary Movement, Eastern Peoples Renewal, Biafra Clergy Network and others have called the people of Biafra to rally together to fight the common enemy. The groups condemned what it called the incursion of Fulani’s onslaught with the backing of President Muhammadu Buhari against the Christian dominated southern Nigeria calls for urgent and proper reactionary measures. According to a statement signed by its spokesman, Uchenna Madu, the groups maintained that it is now ready to build more synergies among the leading pro-Biafra groups: Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Southeast Governors, traditional, religious, political and opinion leaders of Igbo land. “This is not the time of apportioning blames against each other. Our people must avoid provocative and inciting statements that pitch one against another,” it said. The coalition condemned the false accusations against the Governors of Southeast mostly Governors Okezie Ikpeazu and Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Abia and Enugu States respectively that they have already given out their states land for Fulani herdsmen inhabitation. “This inciting falsehood against the Governors is capable of jeopardising the synergistic approach to disband these foreign marauders called Fulani herdsmen. “We challenge the traditional rulers and Presidents General of the host communities of the land allegedly given to Fulani herdsmen by state Governors to show proof of evidences that their lands have been given out to our enemies. Ndigbo must know that the strength in unity of purposes is far greater than a sectional strength of one and his group. “We also hail Southeast governors for banning open grazing of cows in Igbo land. We urge them to emulate their Abia state brother, Governor Ikpeazu in his vision in establishing the Enyimba Economic City at Aba. We advise our governors to establish mechanical and technological villages across Igbo land to enable our unemployed youths to develop their talents.”