By Okon Okon Abuja – Mr Ifeanyi Nwaudunna, President, Igbo Youth Assembly, has called on the 9th National Assembly to give maximum support to President Muhammadu Buhari to actualise the Local Government autonomy. Nwaudunna who spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday in Abuja on a number of topical issues said that the move by Buhari would enable the local dwellers to benefit more from the dividend of democracy, was a master stroke. “We commend the move, it will bring development to local government areas especially the financial strong hold of the councils by state governors,’’he said. Nwaudunna said the group was involved in strong advocacy to promote the national unity of the country and also by supporting strong policies being initiated by Buhari`s administration to spread development across the states and regions. “In the youth assembly which I am the president, we support development policies; such as local government reform, we are in strong advocacy of unity and national integration. “Having endorsed President Buhari during the election, we demonstrated that, and still demonstrating, the love for the country to ensure that the unity of Nigeria remains non- negotiable, irrespective of religions, tribe or political affiliation. “We agree that there are problems confronting the country, ranging from insecurity, kidnapping and violent crimes, there is the need for the state governments and federal to improve on governance and tackle these challenges,’’ he said. Nwaudunna, however, extolled Buhari for his efforts in tackling insurgency in the North east,  adding that most of these challenges were being fought frontally and receiving attention, but “ we as a group, is also calling on the federal government to adopt more strategies to curtail the challenges’’. Speaking on political restructuring, the youth president who is lawyer, regretted that the Igbos were not given proper attention by Buhari’s first tenure but says all hope is not lost. He said the Igbos are contributing socially, economically and politically to the Nigeria project, adding that a lot of expectations from the youth council were not properly attended to. “Our people are not given positions, but in terms of capital projects, the present government under Buhari has done more than any other person in the Igbo land, “he said. According to him, the road projects have contributed immensely to boosting economy of the area. “We have made demands, the Igbo youth assembly have requested President Buhari to listen to the voice of reason on how best to handle the exclusion of the Igbos in some key positions of the federation,“he said. He advised the president to fix political technocrats in key positions who could deliver to the satisfaction of Nigerians who voted them into power. “Technocrats, be they politicians should be patriotic Nigerians and those who have dedicated themselves to the services of the nation professionally,’’he added. We have high hopes that the president forth coming cabinet would be made up of men and women of high integrity and competence,’’he said. This, Nwaudunna assured, would go a long way to manifesting into effective governance across the nook and crannies of the country. (NAN)