By Yinusa Ishola Omu-Aran (Kwara) – The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Omu-Aran Unit Command in Kwara, has warned traders in Omu-Aran to desist from displaying their wares by the roadside to avoid unwarranted accident. Mr Festus Adetunji, the FRSC Omu-Aran Unit Commander, gave the warning at the commissioning of Urban Traffic Sanity Project in Omu-Aran, Irepodun Local Government Area, on Tuesday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the project was initiated and executed by the newly-inaugurated Omu-Aran Market Transportation Stakeholders’ Committee. Adetunji also doubled as the Chairman of the committee. The project involved fabrication of 30 pieces of road traffic signs with the inscriptions “No Parking, Keep Moving’’ to be displayed at designated spots during market days. The event which attracted heads of security agencies, market leaders, transport union leaders, was also meant to sensitise traders on danger inherent in display of wares by the roadside. Adetunji said the location of the community as a gateway to three neighbouring states was responsible for the noticeable high volume of traffic, especially during market days. He explained that unnecessary accident and its attendant casualty as a result of incessant wrong parking, obstruction of traffic and illegal display of wares by roadside would no longer be condoned by his organisation and the committee. According to the FRSC boss, the project is part of the proposal and three-phased levels of operation that was adopted by the committee at a recent meeting in Omu-Aran. He listed other aspects of the operation as construction of speed breakers to reduce high speed and construction of barriers to prevent certain categories of vehicles from entering the town during certain periods. “A committee representing all stakeholders in transportation business was inaugurated at the palace of Olomu shortly after the last general elections. “The committee’s mandate is to find lasting solutions that will make room for free flow of traffic in the town, hence the production of the traffic signs. “We, therefore, appeal to our road users, especially traders, to desist from displaying their wares by the roadside,’’ he said. Oba Abdulraheem Adeoti, the Olomu of Omu-Aran, in his remarks, praised the committee for their foresight and urged them to maintain the tempo. Adeoti, represented by Chief Jide Adebayo, the Eesa of Omu-Aran, noted that the community was expanding rapidly in terms of human population and physical infrastructure. According to him, this is the reason why we need to be extra careful and also be vigilant so as not to run foul of the law. He called for more support for the committee in order to succeed in its assignment. Chief Bisi Adeyemi, President, Omu-Aran Development Association, on his part, pledged the association’s support in order achieve the desired objectives. Mrs Mogbonjubola Adeniyi, the Chairperson, Kwara Market Association, Irepodun Local Government Chapter, promised that her members would continue to abide by road traffic rules and regulations, especially during market days. (NAN)