The temporary defeat of Nigerian Aso Rock tyrant, President Muhammadu Buhari, by the mass of the people’s relentless protests must not be celebrated by gullible Nigerians over the deceptive suspension of the pernicious RUGA Fulani settlement for Buhari’s terrorising Fulani unwashed dogs. First, it was a grazing reserve. Later, the president shifted grounds to cattle colony. Today, it’s Fulani’s RUGA settlement. Tomorrow, his Fulani’s army of occupation; who have already encircled the country by way of roaming the entire forest of the nation’s geopolitical regions after refusing to heed repeated counsel to send them to school, will come with another name. I will come to that, shortly. My sympathy in all of this goes to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. The wrongly educated Vice President has been referring to the terrorising Fulani herders invasion of peace loving innocent farmers’ crops and land — even the raping and slaughtering of mother and children by the migrating Fulani as ‘farmers/herders clashes!Vice President Osibanjo’s problem stems from convergence of poverty of his education and the corrosion of his personal Christianity’s consciousness of the laws of invasion and wilful destruction of others’ estates or property of individuals. The Holy Bible of the old Testament which both the Christians and Muslims alike subscribed to,  posits in the book of Exodus 22:5 thus: “if anyone grazes their livestock in a field or vineyard and lets them stray and they graze in someone else’s field, the offender must make restitution from the best of their own field or vineyard”. Also, because the acclaimed Professor of law’s lust for temporary power, he has refused to avert his mind to the now popular Hon. Justice Adewale Thomson’s judgement and the banning of open grazing in Nigeria in the old Western Region on April 17th, 1969 in suit no AB/26/66 at Abeokuta Division of the High Court. The judgement reads: “I do not accept the contention of Defendants that a custom exists which imposes an obligation on the owner of farm to fence his farm whilst the owner of cattle allows his cattle to wander like pests and cause damage.  Such a custom if it exists, is unreasonable and I hold that it is repugnant to natural justice, equity and good conscience and therefore unenforceable…in that it is highly unreasonable to impose the burden of fencing a farm on the farmer without the corresponding obligation on the cattle owner to fence in his cattle.” Sequence to that I ban open grazing for it is inimical to peace and tranquility and the cattle owners must fence or ranch their animals for peace to reign in these communities.” For those who are not yet aware of the implications of President Buhari’s ethnic jingoistic manipulations with the now suspended RUGA Fulani settlement plans, here are some of it. The RUGA Fulani settlement which had already secretly commenced in 36 States before its truncation has its original root in jihad. The project has started in Kontagora, Niger State on a 31,000-hectare piece of land. The project was bid to be  replicated in 12 States with six (6) of such colonies to be constructed in each state of the federation in the long run.The aborted RUGA settlement for Fulani Herdsmen, their families and cattle/livestock was meant to supplant and uproot the indigenous people from their ancestral lands. The RUGA Fulani settlement would have contained ranches, grass or feed farms, abattoirs, dairy, meat and skin/leather processing plants, housing, religious houses, schools, roads, power and water supplies and the complete range of infrastructure required to support and sustain an ultra-modern local government area. Using the first RUGA Fulani settlement in Kontagora in Niger State, the land size or landmass of each RUGA is at least 31,000 hectares of land or 310 SQUARE KILOMETERS. That is the size of an average Local Government Area (LGA) in many States in Nigeria. The average size of an LGA in the South East is 331 sq km and in the South West, 574 sq km. Lagos State has the least average LGA size at 179 sqKm, Imo State has average LGA size of 205sqkm, Akwa Ibom State – 229 sq km, Anambra 231sq km and Osun State has average LGA size at 308 sq km just to mention a few.  At 310 sq km in size, a RUGA or Fulani Cattle Colony is the size of a Local Government Area in Nigeria.So, the Buhari’s RUGA Fulani Herdsmen settlement would have been an exclusive settlement for Fulani Herders and their families because it’s only the Fulani tribe that herds cattle. Come to think of it, Buhari’s RUGA programme would have been established in six (6) such exclusive Fulani settlements in each of the thirty-six (36) States in Nigeria. In the end at completion of the programme there would have been two hundred and sixteen (216) new exclusive Fulani Local Government Areas in Nigeria.For the record, Nigeria has seven hundred and seventy-four (774) LGAs decreed into existence in the Military Decree falsely called Nigerian Constitution 1999.  Nigeria is ruled by Military Decree imposed by force of arms. Nigeria has had no agreed Constitution made by the people since the Military abrogated the Independence Constitution. Let’s leave the Constitution fraud for another day. As it’s roughly put, the current population of Nigeria is about two hundred million, eight hundred and twenty-eight thousand and eight hundred and twenty-four (200,828,824) people as at 26 June 2019. Given the fact in above, the average population of a Local Government Area in Nigeria is approximately two hundred and sixty thousand (260,000) people. Bearing in mind the facts above, Buhari’s RUGA programme on completion was projected to increase the Fulani population in Nigeria by FIFTY-SIX MILLION, ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUSAND (56,160,000) Fulanis. There are about Thirteen Million (13,000,000) Fulanis in Nigeria presently which is 6.3% of Nigeria’s population according to CIA Factbook on Nigeria. In effect, Buhari’s RUGA programme on completion would have seen Nigeria with a projected total Fulani Population of SIXTY-NINE MILLION, ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUSAND (69,160,000), 4.32-fold increase in population. Assuming President Buhari had his way, the Fulani would have arguably become the most populous nationality in Nigeria (in today’s population figure terms) having outgrown the Hausa (25.1% or about 50.4 Million), the Yoruba (21% or about 42.2 Million) and the Igbo (18% or about 32.2 Million). In one fell swoop the Fulani would have become the majority nationality in Nigeria. The Tripod balance in Nigeria would have become quad-legged. Without a doubt, President Buhari has himself stated that the Fulani marauding beasts who are engaged in massacres and pillage in Nigeria are not Nigerian citizens. In other words, the Fulani herders are alien non-Nigerians. Governor El Rufai of Kaduna State has also said the same thing about them. Several powerful sources in Nigeria have repeatedly confirmed that the Fulani herders causing mayhem in Nigeria are aliens from across West and Central Africa. Nigerians are generally agreed that the Fulani herders and terrorists engaged in land grab and terrorist activities in Nigeria are non-Nigerians from West and Central Africa. The global community is aware that the advent of Buhari’s RUGA programme or Fulani Herdsmen Cattle Colony programme was preceded by increased Fulani Herdsmen Terrorist activity and land grab in the Middle Belt and elsewhere in Nigeria. It was also preceded by militant advocacy by Miyetti Allah for grazing routes and grazing reserves to be established in the Middle Belt and Southern States of Nigeria in particular. Without doubt, Buhari has himself pronounced the fact that his RUGA or Fulani Cattle Colony programme is meant to resettle the Fulani Herdsmen and satisfy the demands of Miyetti Allah! Even when all the States from the Middle Belt to Southern Nigeria vehemently rejected the Buhari Fulani Cattle Colony programme and refused to allocate land in their states as demanded by Buhari, the presidency proclaims that it has acquired the lands across the 36 states by force against the Constitution of the country that vested ownership of the land on the state governors. Notwithstanding that rejection of the Cattle Colony Programme, Buhari opted to rebrand the programme as RUGA and to instead, to use existing Federal Government owned land in the States. It’s for this reason and in addition to FGN owned land in the states that Buhari earlier sponsored an Executive Bill in the National Assembly to enable the FGN to acquire all rivers and their river- banks in Nigeria.  Nigerians view Buhari’s  Rivers/River-bank acquisition Bill as a consistent and integral part of his RUGA/Fulani Cattle Colony land grab. The bill which was sponsored on the auspices of Ministry of Transport failed because it never had the inputs of the Minister of Transport from Rivers State. The question has been tweaking, what is the justification, and on the basis of which law of Nigeria would Buhari undertake such massive immigration and resettlement of foreigners (West and Central African Fulanis) in Nigeria on indigenous Nigerian lands? Certainly, neither Nigerian Immigration law nor ECOWAS laws permit non citizens to enter Nigeria without passports. Why would Buhari pursue such a most expensive massive immigration programme to import and resettle more than 59 million foreigners on Nigerian lands at a time Nigeria is already over-populated and searching for effective means of population control?Here is another question, why would Buhari  throw open the Nigerian Northern borders using Nigerian tax payers funds to invite and fund more than 59 million foreign Fulani for resettlement on indigenous lands at a time Nigerians are in hunger and penury when the World’s most powerful country, USA is building wall on its Mexican border to stop a flow of only a few hundred thousand refugees? Come to think of it, there is no refugee problem or war in West and Central Africa that could be said to instigate such massive immigration of African Fulanis to Nigeria. Even so, refugees are usually provided temporary shelter in camps, not permanent settlement and such refugee programs are at the costs of the United Nations .Who can tell me truly that these Buhari’s foreign Fulanis are not refugees. These foreign Fulanis are in Nigeria in contravention of Nigerian Immigration Laws. So why is Buhari seeking to forcefully legitimise and resettle illegal immigrants on indigenous lands of Nigerians? Why do these Buhari foreign Fulanis carry AK-47 and other military grade weapons freely and openly across the borders of Nigeria and all over the States of Nigeria?Even so, why have the Nigerian Army, Police and Security  Services failed and or refused to enforce Nigerian gun laws against these Fulanis? The Fulani Herdsmen Terrorists, Bandits/Kidnappers are known to have been engaged in terrorist activity all over Nigeria and continue to do so. Why is Buhari rewarding terrorists and criminals with resettlement on Nigerian indigenous lands? Why would government reward terrorists rather than prosecute them? Above all, why would terrorists be resettled on the lands of other indigenous nations of Nigeria? Why is Buhari bent on introducing whole 6 new Local Government Areas full of terrorists in States of other indigenous nations of Nigeria? Why would any state or nation accept such terrorist communities of foreign hostile citizens?Now, the nationality questions: Is it not provocation of the most insensitive and inhumane nature for Buhari to seek to introduce exclusive Fulani LGAs into native lands of other indigenous nations of Nigeria. RUGA/Fulani Cattle Colony introduces and creates 6 new exclusive Fulani LGAs in every State of Nigeria. In all intents and purposes, indigenous Nigerian Nations are compelled by Federal Presidential power to have the Fulani who are alien to their lands to inherit and permanently retain part of their indigenous land as Fulani homeland. Imagine 30 Fulani LGAs planted strategically all over the South East, or 36 of such LGAs scattered strategically all over Yorubaland or in the Middle Belt and South South? Now this: when will Buhari create exclusive Igbo or Yoruba or Ijaw or Idoma or Efik or Ibibio or Urobo or Tiv LGAs in Sokoto, Kano, Zamfara etc? If not why would Buhari pursue RUGA/Fulani Cattle Colonies program against the objections of States of the Middle Belt and Southern Nigeria? The Fulani Exclusiveness of RUGA settlement and the use of Federal Funds to build whole new ultra-modern LGAs with facilities not available to the other LGAs of the natives or indigenous Nigerians is nothing short of APARTHEID!  Apartheid is impermissible and unacceptable in Nigeria. RUGA/Cattle Colony Fulani Herdsmen settlement is more like an establishment of local government area. The herdsmen will come with their families and the full facilities of human settlements. Being exclusively Fulani, therefore the LGA becomes exclusively Moslem. Islamisation of the locale? You’re at liberty to guess! The LGA must come with Mosques for worship. With the LGA being exclusively Islamic, comes Sharia Courts and Sharia Law, along with Sharia police within the LGA in order to meet the religious and way of life needs of the settlers. It will certainly come with the need for Emirs or District heads. In one fell swoop suddenly each State in the South East, South South, South West, Middle Belt and other Christian and animist nations, must necessarily legitimise Sharia Law given six  Sharia LGAs in their States. Inevitably Sharia Law must then be declared and recognised in all States of Nigeria. And boom, Nigeria has become a Sharia country! Once Sharia law becomes operational in all states of Nigeria, followed by Emirate Councils being declared in those states and then demands for more Sharia LGAs and more land and then claims of right to govern the States and so on and so forth becomes paramount. For with the now legitimate Fulani rights, inevitably arises to demand that each State of Nigeria make provisions to accommodate their language whether Fulfude or Hausa in the State Schools and public media broadcasts. The demand for both Sharia Law and dual language in each State of Nigeria would be perfectly legitimate. Do you doubt that? Before you know it, a new ethnic group in Edo State for instance that has six LGAs as its homeland plus the original 27 LGAs, would certainly be entitled to have their own language accommodated in Imo Schools and public broadcasts. They will be entitled to vote and be voted for. They will be entitled to have their Sharia Courts and facilities must be dualised to accommodate them and their different way of life. That’s it! Are they not also from Edo State? After all they have 6 LGA homelands in Edo State! The same must unavoidably happen in all other States in Nigeria where RUGA if the satanic plot was allowed to be implemented, outside Northern States that are totally Sharia States.That means their Emirs would have to seat in Oba’s Palace or traditional rulers and when it becomes one of their turns, an Emir will become the Head of the traditional Council of the Enogie, right! Same must certainly happen in all relevant States in Nigeria. Strictly speaking — every state in Nigeria —  would suddenly have to — as a matter of legitimate necessity, double up language, culture, judiciary, governance, traditional leadership and all aspects of their lives with the Fulani.This must be what former President Obasanjo foresaw and accurately described as Fulanisation and Islamisation of Nigeria. Will Buhari create Igbo and Yoruba Customary Law Courts in Sokoto, Kano, Katsina and in all Northern Moslem States of Nigeria? If not, why not? Will Buhari also set up a RUGA for the Igbo, Yoruba, Ijaw, Idoma and all other tribes of Nigeria so that Nigeria can be “Igbonised”, “Yorubanised”, “Ijawnised”, “Idomanised”, “Tivinised”, “Ibibionised”, “Edonised”, “Igbiranised”, “efikinised”, “urobonised” and “all kind of nized” with all etnic groups in Nigeria and Christianised and ” animistinized”  even piggery for non-muslims in southern Nigeria since Muslims forbid pig meat?Who can contest the obvious fact that RUGA/Fulani Herdsmen Cattle Colony is outright declaration of Jihad? It wouldn’t have worked without declaration of war against the indigenous nations of Nigeria and defeating them in a war of conquest. In RUGA/Fulani Herdsmen Cattle Colonies, his Rivers & Riverbanks Bill and support for and protection of Fulani Herdsmen Terrorists plus romance and collaboration with Miyetti Allah, Buhari is directly and indirectly making and levying war against Nigeria. The singular largest illegal human migration in history is the /Fulani Herdsmen Cattle Colony programme, in terms of its size. It is unprecedented. It is also the greatest Jihad by stealth, being executed through abuse and misuse of Presidential power and privilege to not only attempt to permanently enforce Fulani Caliphate colonisation of Nigeria, but also carry out eventual Fulanisation and Islamisation of Nigeria without open declaration of war against the indigenous nations of Nigeria.This is a clarion call: every indigenous Nigerian has a duty to resist this Buhari’s Jihadist banditry, even though it is suspended, momentarily. Any indigenous nation that accepts Fulani RUGA settlement is already on their way to extinction from the face of the earth before they realise it. Ask the Hausa  Kingdoms of the North, the indigenous people of Ilorin or the nations of the Middle Belt that have had to live a life of endless wars of self preservation against the Fulani Caliphate perpetual Jihadist bloodbath.It’s time for Nigerians to take their country back, now that the tyrant in Aso Rock and his illiterate Vice President, Yomi Osinbajo, have evaporated under the unremitting protests of the very ordinary native indigenous Nigerians. *Email: ikhideerasmus@gmail.comFollow me on Twitter @ikhide_erasmus1 