By Josephine Obute Lagos – Miss Shola Shittu who  reigned as the immediate past Queen Moremi Ajasoro(QMA) has called for severe legal actions against  rapists to safe the  lives of young  and innocent girls in the country. Shittu spoke to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Lagos following the recent recurrences of rape of some young girls in parts of the country. She said that if proper investigations  had been conducted  and penalties  meted on past  perpetrators, intending rapists would have learnt their lessons and stayed away from the act. ” The act keeps going on because of lack of proper investigations and the enforcement  of strong legal actions against  those heartless men who do not have moral upbringing. ” Any suspected sexual harassment or assault should be reported  to the appropriate government  agencies, while the culprits should be exposed and be  treated as hardened criminals. ” When the victim  keeps silence,  the rapist will go ahead with his act unchecked.  So, every victim must  always summon the courage to  speak out against the injustice done to her, ” she told NAN. She advised both the Federal and state governments to impress on security agents the need for them  to be  strict on rape perpetrators without sentiments. ” The government needs  to  take   rape seriously because it is equivalent to murder,” she said. According to Shittu, the society needs to understand that the stigma that  rape brings on its victims makes it difficult for them to voice out, thereby allowing the predator to go scot free. She noted that the public should always sympathise with  rape victims instead of stigmatising them because the victims never wished to be raped. Shittu advised the public to always listen to the stories of rape victims  and help them with  proper legal action against rapists. She also added, ” A proper education on rape should be given to both genders at a tender age. The thought of rape does not come up in a day, it lingers in the mind for a very long time and such should be monitored. ” Let people understand that jokes about rape is not acceptable and should be condemned as victims can react violently to such,” she said. She also suggested that proper medication and therapy should be given to victims of rape to avoid them from becoming rapists themselves. The former beauty queen, who currently runs a non governmental organization against child molestation said that girls should learn self defence as a way to escape an unsuspecting  rapist. “ A child must  not be allowed to grow up with pains and scars from a painful past,child molestation and abuse are some  of the factors that  can hinder a child from having a fulfilled adulthood. ” Due to the hazardous effects that come with it, we should teach our children how to avoid being victims of rape,  and how to defend themselves against unsuspecting  criminals, ” she said. She told NAN that her pet project, the “Queen Iyimide Foundation (QIF)” had continued to carry  out awareness programmes  against child molestation and abuse across the country. She added that it had also been  addressing the problems associated with  incessant rape in the society. “The last edition I had was in Ekiti in May  which preached love and respect for the young ones instead of molesting and endangering their lives,” she said. NAN reports that the QMA beauty pageant was an initiative of the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, aimed at encouraging young girls to learn and promote the heroic  virtues of the legendary Queen Moremi Ajasoro in contemporary society. History has it that Moremi Ajasoro saved the people of Ile-Ife from their attackers several centuries ago.