By:Auwalu Yusuf Daura (Katsina state) – A Daura based NGO known as Kangiwa Development Foundation, has donated 5,000 varieties of assorted tree seedlings to farmers and individuals in the area to promote the green world concept and convert desertification. Alhaji Ibrahim Hamisu, the Chairman, Board of Trustee of the foundation and a special assistant on media to Emir of Daura, made this known in Daura on Saturday during the distribution of the seedlings to beneficiaries. He said that the objective was to conserve the environment and reduce  indiscriminate felling of trees which negatively affect the eco system. Hamisu appealed to the Federal Governments to reduce the prices of kerosine and cooking gas in order to check the ugly trend of cutting down of trees which negatively affect the environment. The board chairman said that 2,000 neem, 1,500 eucaliptus and 1,500 moringa trees seedling would be distributed free. He, however, said that the foundation would closely monitor the implementation of the programme. Hamisu explained that the tree seedlings were generated through nurseries, adding: “we would in due course expand the scope of the programme to accommodate more interested individuals.” According to him, more seedlings would be planted in schools and   government establishments in the area while 100 neem seedlings would be planted in Daura central market. He added that 120 watering cans would also be distributed to the beneficiaries, saying the cans were donated by the agric department of Daura Local Government. In his remarks, Alhaji Saminu Yari, the State Director of Forestry, lauded the efforts of the foundation and urged them to sustain the project, stressing that tree planting promotes environmental peace. He noted that the Katsina state government had  generated 500,000 varieties of tree seedlings to be distributed for free to interested individuals for planting during this rainy season. Alhaji Abba Mato, the Daura local council chairman, commended the foundation for the wonderful initiative, adding “we would extend both spiritual and moral support for the foundation to succeed.” Mato used the occasion to task the people on the need for peace and stability in the area. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the Kangiwa foundation had recently conducted enlightenment campaign against malaria and HIV/AIDS in the area.(NAN)