Aliyu Suleiman, a National Youth Service Corps, NYSC, member and one of those caught up in the face-off between protesters of Islamic Movement of Nigeria, IMN, and the police has been discharged from hospital. NYSC disclosed this in a statement on its official Facebook page, adding that the scheme would take responsibility for his bills and medical treatment henceforth. Suleiman, who is attached to the Leadership newspapers in Abuja, was hit by a stray bullet on his way to work during the clash on July 22, 2019. Upon discharge, Suleiman narrated how he was shot during the clash which claimed the life of Channels TV reporter, Precious Owolabi. He said: ”We heard gunshots close to us, while our driver was about to turn, I couldn’t feel my arm, it was then I realised that I was hit by a bullet and I immediately notified my CDS Officer, Mrs Adama Anabel, who called the attention of the NYSC-FCT Management on the incident. ”I thank God, NYSC, NYSC-FCT Governing Board and National Hospital Abuja for coming to my aid and for the free medical treatments received.” Before his discharge from National Hospital, Abuja, Sulieman was visited by the Chairman, NYSC-FCT Governing Board, Hajiya Safiya Umar, represented by Director of Youth Development, Mrs Hajarat Ayandele and NYSC FCT Coordinator, Hajiya Walida Siddique. They collectively appreciated God for saving the Corps Member’s life, and wished him quick recovery. The Director-General, Brigadier General, Shuaibu Ibrahim, on receiving the just discharged Corps member in his office on Tuesday, thanked God for sparing his life. “NYSC Management will offset his medical bills and monitor his post-discharge health condition,” he said. He, however, urged serving Corps Members to be vigilant at all times as they discharge their statutory responsibilities. He commended National Hospital Abuja management for its effective service delivery in saving the victim’s life while in distress. Meanwhile, Suleiman has been redeployed to his home State for for post-discharge medicare and proper monitoring. Source