By Okon Okon Abuja – World Health Organisation (WHO) has reiterated its commitment to partner with Federal Government to fast track development of healthcare facilities for Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the North-East. Dr Clement Peter, Officer In-charge of WHO, made the pledge when he visited the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) Boss Mustapha in his office in Abuja, on Monday. According to Peter, his mission to the SGF is to congratulate him on his reappointment and also to discuss issues relating to health in Nigeria, the North-East region in particular. He said WHO would not carry out such an assignment solely without collaboration with the government. “WHO is a health institution coordinating health issues; and one of the things that brought us here is to discuss challenges in the North-East in particular and how to address them. “We are Happy that the Federal Government is putting in efforts by creating the North-East Development Commission, which is really facilitating our work here in Nigeria. “But also, we need the close relationship to strengthen the health system through partnership with the Federal Government,’’ he said. The WHO official said working with government to ensure that a solid system was built was critical in tackling the challenge of increasing IDPs in Nigeria. Similarly, Gov. Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa, who visited the SGF, congratulated him on his re-appointment by President Muhammadu Buhari. Dickson said he came personally to congratulate Mustapha and also to express gratitude to Buhari for reappointing him as the country’s SGF. “You may say, well I am a governor from a different party from his own and why should I come to congratulate him. “We both believe that when the right things are done, we should appreciate; we should work together where we need to for the sake of our country. Dickson described Mustapha’s re-appointment as one of those good steps taken by Buhari to move the country forward. “I want to use this opportunity to remind all of us Nigerians, political leaders in particular, that we need to do more in terms of working across party lines, supporting and encouraging one another. “But also raising the vital issues, disagreeing when it is in national interest to build Nigeria as a nation,’’ he said. Mustapha, who welcomed the partnership, applauded WHO for its assistance not only during crisis, but also when there were disease outbreaks in Nigeria. According to him, WHO is one of the agencies established by the United Nations and has been working in the country for many decades in the provision of healthcare services. The SGF said the bloc’s impact was being felt, especially in conflicts areas of the country. The SGF also described Dickson’s visit as a symbol of unity, peace and inspiration, in spite of differences in political affiliation. (NAN)