As the dust raised by the now suspended RUGA Fulani settlements yet to settle, Nigerians have expressed outrage as the new international passport released by the Nigerian Immigrations Service shows photographs of Fulani herders and cattle conspicuously etched on the inside pages. Nigeria is a multicultural state whose constitution prescribes a secular system. This multiculturalism and secularism is sometimes questioned by the overbearing influence of some ethnic groups over others. The Fulani cattle herders for example have been a constant feature in the news for years over clashes with farmers as a result of their pastoral lifestyle which encroaches on farmlands. So for a symbolic national item like the passport to have the same herders on them can easily trigger a lot of reactions as we now see on social media. According to a source in the Nigeria Immigrations Service that spoke to Sundiata Post on condition of anonymity, the new passport, lemon green in colour was released two weeks ago. Available in 5 years and 10 years validity options. They started with Lagos and Abuja. See the reactions below: Fulani Herdsmen with Cows on Nigeria new Passport pic.twitter.com/b2zXyOpt6z I agree. It's not only fulani herdsmen we have other tribes as well…it is only Yoruba that being shortchanged because Odudua isn't there tho we have eyo on it… The ruse the presidency is using on the ruga settlement policy is called Taqiyya, an Islamic word, which means 'lie and deceive.'Let's not be deceived, let's be awake to kill ruga. pic.twitter.com/iFgkFcxAgq The New Nigerian Passport Has Fulani Terrorist Herdsmen On ItThe Fulanization of Nigeria by Buhari is real#RUGA_PASSPORT pic.twitter.com/kxjohv82xe Imagine? Does it mean the rest of #Nigerians has been sleeping till @MaziNnamdiKanu started to wake us all up? Fulani and Cow is Nigeria international passport! Never noticed this bulshit. What has #Fulani contributed to Nigeria to deserve any form of accolade & such respect? Nigerian passport👇🏾This cow thing is serious.Other countries are displaying technological innovations. Nigeria under Buhari is displaying a Fulani man grazing publicly & disturbing the whole country with cows.Where was our brain when we elected a village man as a president? pic.twitter.com/AWdTSTZK7c This is what they intend turning Nigeria into.See the symbol on the passport Visa page.Fulani Herdsmen and cattle.God will never make ur plans work in Nigeria.Fulani's are strangers and will leave when the time comes pic.twitter.com/v7CmAF93OC Is Nigeria owned by the fulani? Does the all the pages have same picture?? We need the @nassnigeria to summon the DG of NIS on this issue on our passport. We have dwell so much on ''it doesn't matter'' just like on some of our naira notes and coat of arms. Nigeria belong to all of us and not the fulani's pic.twitter.com/IMo6MR6GLx