By Usman Aliyu Okuta (Kwara) – Traditional rulers in Kwara North Senatorial District on Wednesday unanimously endorsed the newly inaugurated  Kwara Football Association, pledging to offer it the desired support. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the monarchs made the pledge when executive members of the association paid them and  other stakeholders a visit in their communities. Led by its Chairman, Malam Idris Musa, the association first paid a visit to the Emir of Okuta, Alhaji Idris Abubakar, who expressed the belief that the new FA members would bring glory to the northern communities in the state. The monarch, who was once an active hockey player, commended the board for its dogged determination to go round the local governments in the state. ” Musa is one of our own, we are proud of him and we believe this will open the way forward for those of us in the north,” he said. Alhaji Idris Sariki, the Emir of Yashikira, on his part, also commended the delegation for visiting the community. The traditional ruler, who described football as a tool for unity, said that the tour would unite the community. Sariki said a dual sports arena, where soccer and horse racing would take place, was underway. The monarch further urged the board to raise the standard of football in the state. The traditional ruler of Gwanara, Dr Sabi Abdullahi, pledged to give moral and financial support to the board. “I want to assure you of my moral and financial support because I am always fascinated anytime I hear about sporting activities, ” he said. He, however, urged the body to help in discovering hidden talents in various communities. The Emir of Ilesha Baruba, Prof. Halidu Abubakar, also congratulated the visiting delegation over the election of its members. The monarch, who described Musa as disciplined and incorruptible, said: “It gladdens my mind that someone from this part is heading the football office. ” I have known Idris for a while so I can proudly say he has the qualities of a good leader. “I am really impressed with the Kwara FA for deeming it fit to visit our community. ” It’s the first time our  people will witness such, and I pray and hope it would wake up those sleeping among us. ” (NAN)