ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, former Minister of Aviation, has criticised the response made by APC national leader, Senator Bola Tinubu to the killing of Mrs Funke Olakunrin, daughter of Afenifere leader, Pa Reuben Fasoranti. In a statement sent to Sundiata Post on Monday, Fani-Kayode said: “The greatest danger to Nigeria are not the Fulani terrorists who seek to enslave us but the small handful of treacherous Yoruba slaves who have dedicated their miserable lives to serving and worshipping them. “These people are FROM the SW (South West) but not OF the SW (South West). They are nothing but scum and filth. Permit me to give you one example. “I listened to Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s slurred speech and utter nonsense at Pa Fasoranti’s home. He was as inconsiderate and insensitive as ever. “He was not there to mourn or commiserate with Pa Fasoranti, he was there to play politics and speak for his Fulani masters. “What on earth has Evans the kidnapper or the Igbo got to do with the targeting and assassination of Mrs. Funke Fasoranti-Olakunrin? “And why the obscene determination and desperate hurry to absolve the Fulani of this hideous crime? “He may not believe that they did it but why would he rule it out completely? Does he know something that we do not know? Is he an expert when it comes to assassination, homicide and murder matters? “Does he know who the killers are? Why the rush to tell us who it wasn’t? Can’t he at least wait for the police to conclude their so-called investigation? “Even for a confirmed quisling and desperate serf this time Tinubu has gone too far. Funke has not even been buried yet and he is already pissing all over her bullet-riddled body. “Tinubu has sold his soul to the devil and his conscience to the north. He has  become a slave to his ambition and a plague to his people. “He is a shameless soul and wicked man who is ready to sacrifice anyone and anything to become President. “I make this  pronouncement today: as long as Jesus sits on the throne he will fail woefully.”