Delta State Governor, Senator Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, has emphasised the commitment of the state government towards providing a conducive atmosphere that will ensure that the state will continue to be the Nollywood hub of the country. The Governor, represented by the state Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education, Chief Patrick Ukah, stated this during the official conferment of Patron, Directors Guild of Nigeria on a Deltan, Engr. Daniel Omoyibo, at Oleh, Delta State, on Sunday. He said that the state places a lot of premium on the Nollywood industry because many of those involved are from the state and have been helping to remove the youths from the streets thereby channeling their energies into productive ventures. Senator Okowa appealed to the directors to continue to make the state a catchment area during their productions in other to groom and nurture more Deltans in the profession. The Governor congratulated the new Patron of the body, adding that it was an honour well deserved as Engr. Omoyibo has contributed immensely to the development of the profession not just in the state but in the country. He encouraged Engr. Omoyobi to continue with his contributions to the upliftment of the society as such ventures normally goes with appreciations from the public and recognition from appropriate authorities. The ceremony, which had many Nollywood stars in attendance, was also witnesses by the member representing Isoko South 1 constituency in the Delta State House of Assembly, Hon. Kenneth Ogba, his Isoko South 11 constituency counterpart, Hon. Ferguson Onwo, the President General of Isoko Development Union, High Chief Iduh Amadhe, and a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stalwart in the state, Mr. Kindsley Erigbuem, among other personalities. •Photo shows Governor Okowa’s representative, Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education, Chief Patrick Ukah (C), during the official conferment of Patron, Directors Guild of Nigeria on Engr. Daniel Omoyibo . . . on Sunday at Oleh, Delta State Source News Express