•Nnamdi Kanu By Pamela Eboh, Awka The Indigenous People of Biafea (IPOB) at the weekend said it is currently engaged in deep and fruitful consultations with local and international stakeholders, power brokers and influencers through its diplomatic outreach for the emergence of a truly independent Biafran state. It said that for obvious reasons, the consultations have been kept out of public discuss, adding that the IPOB led agitation for Biafra independence will not repeat the mistakes of the past A statement by the group’s Media and Publicity Secretary, Comrade Emma Powerful, said that due to the overwhelming enthusiasm of the people and resounding success of the just concluded lecture tour of the United States and Canada, its leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, will be embarking on another tour of many cities across the continent of Australia and nearby New Zealand. According to him, the tour is to mobilise and sensitise every Biafran residing in Australia in preparation for the “inevitable collapse of Nigeria and emergence of a truly independent Biafran state.” The statement reads in part: “IPOB is humbled by the high level of interest shown by various socio-cultural and ethnic groups outside mainframe IPOB structure all over Australia wishing to host our leader. This has made it possible for an exciting and hectic schedule that will see our leader visit every major city in every region of Australia including the Northern Territory. “As the gospel and restoration of Biafra is receiving wonderful and unprecedented acceptance across the globe, our leader will continue to educate, enlighten and fire-up our people and lovers of freedom all over the world for the inevitable collapse of the British made damnable contraption called Nigeria. “All Biafrans – Ijaw, Igala, Isoko, Urohbo, Idoma, Itsekiri, Anang, Igbo, Ibibio, Igbanke, Efik, and others who are living in the continent of Australia will participate in this historic and unprecedented enlightenment tour. “The month of September 2019 will be remembered as the month our people in Australia woke up to claim their rightful place in the quest for our freedom. Every question will be answered live on air and every doubt cleared. “Our leader and without doubt the only genuine prophet of our time will undoubtedly replicate the same wit, bristling intelligence, wisdom and courage he displayed in the just concluded and highly successful USA and Canada town hall meetings.” IPOB called on its members in Australia,  social and cultural organisations of every ethnic persuasion to come out en masse not only to welcome its leader  in grand style but to also “bear witness to the gospel of redemption as preached by the one and only entity the corrupt Nigerian system is afraid of.” “We advise those living in Australia and New Zealand to listen and watch out for date, time and venue of the town hall meeting in their respective cities,” the statement said. (News Express) 