By Awayi Kuje Nasarawa – The Nasarawa State Government has donated 5.6 hectares of land to the Forestry Research Institute of Nigeria (FRIN) for the establishment of the institute’s outstation in the state. Alhaji Usman Abu, the Permanent Secretary of the state Ministry of Environment, made the presentation of the land on Monday in Nasarawa. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that during the donation, Abu was accompanied by his counterpart from the state Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Mr Naphtali Dachor. Abu said that the handing over of the land to the Forestry Research Institute of Nigeria followed an application by the Federal Ministry of Environment, which was approved by the state government. According to him, the land will assist FRIN in meeting its mandates to conduct research into all aspects of forestry, forest products utilisation, wildlife, watershed management and agro-forestry. “The importance of Forestry Research Institute of Nigeria to the socio-economic development of the society cannot be overemphasised, hence the resolve by the state government to provide land for the institute in the state,’’ Abu said. Abu commended critical stakeholders, particularly the Emir of Nasarawa, Alhaji Ibrahim Usman, for their support and cooperation in securing the land. He said that the host communities and the state would benefit a lot when the research institute’s outstation begins full operation. In his remarks, the Emir of Nasarawa, Alhaji Ibrahim Usman, said the partnership between the state and the Federal Government toward establishing the research institute’s outstation was a welcome development. The Emir noted that the partnership would go a long way in checkmating environmental degradation and effects of climate change in the state and the country at large. He gave an assurance of continuous support and cooperation to ensure a smooth take-off of the research institute in the area. Responding, Prof. Adeshola Adepoju, the Director-General, FRIN, thanked the state government for donating the land. Adepoju, who was represented by the Head of Station – Montane Forest Research Station Jos, Dr Kingsley Okeke-Agulu, assured the state government of the judicious use of the land.