By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Speaker, House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila on Monday assured  that 9th National Assembly would strive to uphold the independence of the legislature. The Speaker reiterated this in Abuja at the second annual public lecture of the ‘Legislative Digest’, a monthly magazine of the National Assembly. Represented by the
Chairman, House Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Hon. Ben Kalu,
Gbajabiamila also said, the House would prioritize the economy, insecurity,
good governance and fight against corruption, over the next four years, using a
system of accountability and transparency. “The 9th House of Representatives will uphold the independence of the legislature while leveraging on the benefits of interdependence between the arms of government. “Moving forward,
we must learn from the mistakes of the previous assemblies and build on their
achievements for the good of the nation. The 9th House of Representatives will
do just that”, the Speaker said. Hon. Gbajabiamila also
used the occasion to brief Nigerians on the motions and Bills that had been initiated
by the House in a spate of one month, saying the House had hit the ground
running. “As at Wednesday,
July 24, 2019, barely a month post inauguration, 287 bills had passed first
reading, with 2 passing second reading in the House. Also, 63 House Resolutions
had been made urging the Executive arm and mandating committees to take
necessary actions arising from motions deliberated on the floor of the House of
Representatives”, he added. Earlier in his welcome
address, the Clerk to the National Assembly and the Host of the event, Chief
Mohammed Sani Omolori, said that the occasion was necessary to x-ray the
legacies of the national parliament. “It is on this
note that we are gathered here today under the banner of the National Assembly
Legislative Digest to recognize the 20 years of the National Assembly in the
4th republic and, more importantly, identify those salient tasks it has to
confront ahead. “The management
of the National Assembly has thought it expedient to help inform the Nigerian
people on these tasks as they will be highlighted here today. “In our bid to
provide authoritative information on the activities of the National Assembly
rather than relying solely on third party sources, the National Assembly
Legislative Digest was established as the official publication of the National
Assembly and it has continued to disseminate our news directly from source and
has continuously blazed the trail and set the pace in using its platform to
connect the National Assembly with the people. “Today, the
magazine has made great effort in bridging the wide gap in information on the
National Assembly. “This is its 2nd
public lecture and, with the support of the two Houses of the National
Assembly, it intends to do a lot more to bridge the gap and highlight more
positive actions of the National Assembly. “The major
challenge facing the National Assembly and indeed the Nigerian legislatures as
a whole today is that of public perception of this very important arm of
government which is the nucleus of democracy. Not many Nigerians really
understand the peculiar operations of the legislature and that is why the
institution is always at the receiving end whenever there is any clash of
interest in government policy issues. “This platform
organised by the National Assembly Legislative Digest with support of the
National Assembly bureaucracy is intended to bring together people from three
arms of government to share ideas together on issues of common interest”,
he said. The event also
attracted the former Senate President, Chief Ken Nnamani, Senator Ibn N’Allah,
some military brass among a host of other dignitaries.