Former Minister of Education, Dr Oby Ezekwesili, has described the decision of founder of Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA) Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo’s decision to step down over alleged rape allegation from Timi Dakolo’s wife, Busola as a “good first step”. Ezekwesili who choose to react via her twitter handle, wrote: “This is a good first step. A process that helps fully resolve the saga would be the best Next Step”. Pastor Fatoyinbo had in a post on his Instagram page on early Monday, announced stepping down from the pulpit following the rape saga. Veteran comedian and social commentator, Alibaba has called out prominent pastors for keeping mute over the rape allegations levelled against Biodun Fatoyinbo, Pastor of the Commonwealth of Zion Assembly, COZA. Fatoyinbo, who has stepped down, was accused by Busola Dakolo of raping her as a teenager causing wild outrage on and off social media. Recall that wife of popular musician, Timi Busola, had alleged that the COZA founder forcefully raped her when she was young. The mother-of-three narrated how Pastor Fatoyinbo allegedly forced his way into her when she was a teenager. Fatoyinbo, however, denied the allegation, though admitted that Busola once attended the same church with his family. The clergyman consequently ordered his lawyers to institute both criminal and civil cases against Busola. However, pastors of prominent Nigerian churches are yet to speak, despite the controversy created by the saga. Alibaba stated that the case would have been different if it was about members of the church and not a fellow pastor. In a post on his Instagram page, Alibaba wrote: “When it comes to preaching against what members of the congregations are doing wrong, its in Vol 1, 2 and 3. “Fornication, smoking, indecent dressing, drinking, night clubbing, polygamy, divorce, robbery, domestic violence, terrorism, being stingy, racism, corruption, greed, homosexuality, adultery, mixing with bad gang. “But touch, not the Lord’s anointed and do my profits no harm.”