By Obinna Unaeze Kontagora (Niger) – The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) on Saturday inaugurated 2,990 Road Marshal Assistants (RMA). Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, Corps Marshal, FRSC, said the event was part of efforts aimed toward creating safer motoring environment for accelerated economic development of the nation. He made this known while inaugurating the 2019 RMAs, who just concluded their six month training at the Nigerian Army Training Centre (NATRAC), Kontagora in Niger. “It is my delight to address you on this occasion marking the formal conclusion of a six months RMA Basic Course for new entrants into the FRSC. “I am glad that applicant who were successful in the RMA cadre have today concluded the requisite RMA basic course,” he said. Oyeyemi, who was represented by Deputy Corps Marshal Shehu Zaki in charge of Administration and Human Resources, told the trainees that working for the corps meant undertaking humanitarian tasks, which entails selfless and absolute commitment. “The FRSC management will provide you with all the necessary tools, support and enabling environment to serve, and grow in your chosen career,” he said. He said that the corps, as the country’s lead agency in road traffic administration and safety management, has attained enviable heights with world class standards. The FRSC boss said that over the years the corps had developed national capacity for road safety management. “Part of these efforts is the conduct of basic courses for the building of human capacity for all new entrants to enhance their service delivery,” he said. He said that the prospective Cadet Officers and Marshal Recruits were subjected to series of physical exercises and intellectual drills aimed at achieving regimentation and the desired attitudinal modifications. Oyeyemi warned the new entrants to be mindful of their conducts and shun all negative tendencies capable of prejudicing national security. He said that the corps also collaborated with the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) to subject the cadets to stringent drug evaluation tests to determine their physical and mental status in line with the resolutions of the Joint Intelligent Board (JIB). The Corps Marshal thanked the Chief of Army staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai for approving the use of the army facility for the training. Similarly, Brig.-Gen. Hilary Nzan, Chief of Staff, NATRAC, Kontagora urged the Marshal to maintain the high level of discipline received during the training exercise in the discharge of their duties. Earlier, Deputy Corps Marshal Martin Dapel, the Camp Commandant, said that the training which started in June had 3,200 trainees but some of them were disqualified. (NAN)