By Ifeoma Aka Enugu – The Speaker of Enugu State House of Assembly, Chief Edward Ubosi has urged security agencies to maintain the existing peace in the state. Ubosi made the call in Enugu during the inauguration of the Assembly Committees on Sports, Youths and Security as well as the Committee on Tourism and Chieftaincy Matters. The speaker said that security of lives and property of the people remained the top priority of government. He revealed that the state government was working round the clock to ensure that the state did not experience any insecurity by providing necessary logistics to security agencies. He said the logistics include operational vehicles to assist them in their operations. Ubosi advised them to reciprocate the state government’s gesture by ensuring that there was no breakdown of law and order in the state. Responding, Mr Chinedu Ukwu, the assembly committee Chairman on Sports, Youths and Security, said the committee would work with ministries, agencies and security agencies to ensure that the state was more peaceful. He stressed that their assignment was not business as usual and urged the members to sit up this time around. “According to what is enshrined in the constitution, we are meant to supervise everything that the governor has put in place. “Our job is to work and create a cordial relationship as well ensure a synergy between the assembly and security agencies in the state. “If you look around the state, you will understand that the governor is a peaceful man, and the committee is expected to help maintain the peace that has been in existence since he assumed office in 2015,” he said. The committee chairman on Chieftaincy and Tourism, Mr Josephat Okika, promised that the committee would do its best to end kingship tussles in the state, especially in Nkanu land. Okika, who is representing Uzo-Uwani constituency, said he would be fair and God-fearing in deciding on matters pertaining to chieftaincy affairs to avoid creating more trouble in the state. On tourism, he said that the committee would encourage investors who would be willing to invest and develop tourism potentials of the state.