By Adaeze Iroha Lagos – A businessman, Alabi Hammed, was on Friday arraigned before a Yaba Magistrates’ Court in Lagos for allegedly defrauding his business partner of N4.62 million payment for their supply of 22,000 litres of diesel. Hammed, 35, who resides in Ogba, Lagos, is facing a three-count charge bordering on conspiracy, stealing and obtaining by false pretence. The defendant however, pleaded not guilty to the charge. Prosecution Counsel, Sgt. Godwin Oriabure, told the court that the defendant committed the offences sometime between February and September 2018 at LAGBUS office in Ojota, Lagos. According to him, the defendant and his business partner, Mr Bolarinwa Odejayi, had supplied 22,000 litres of diesel at N210 per litre to LAGBUS on Feb. 14, 2018. He said that the total value of the diesel was N4.62 million, which was supposed to be shared between them. Oriabure told the court that Hammed had collected the cheque from LAGBUS, cashed it and spent it, without informing the complainant. “My Lord, because the supply receipt was done in the defendant’s name, he proceeded to clear the cheque without the complainant. “He cashed it and kept lying to his partner, Odejayi that LAGBUS had not yet paid. “It was when Odejayi went to their office to inquire as to the payment delay that he was told that the defendant had collected and cashed the cheque,” the prosecutor said. He said the offences contravened Sections 411, 314 and 287 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2015 (Revised). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Section 314 stipulates 15 years imprisonment for obtaining by false pretences, while Section 287 stipulates three years jail term for stealing. Magistrate Mrs Oluwatoyin Ojuromi, released the defendant on bail in the sum of N1 million with two sureties each in like sum. Ojuromi said that one of the sureties must be a blood relation of the defendant and should reside within the court’s jurisdiction. She ordered that the sureties must be gainfully employed and show evidence of three years tax payment to Lagos State Government. Ojuromi adjourned the case until Aug. 7 for trial.