•Rochas Okorocha Mrs. Uloma Nwosu, eldest daughter of the immediate past governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, narrowly escaped lynching Friday, by an angry mob comprising youths from Naze community and traders from Alaba Market, Owerri upon the discovery that alleged looted government properties by the previous administration were concealed in more than 15 containers (40 feet) inside a secluded warehouse along Aba Road. In the warehouse, believed to be owned by the former First Lady of Imo State, Mrs. Nkechi Okorocha and located opposite Alaba Market, next to the All-In supermarket recently sealed by the EFCC, were allegedly found missing sets of furniture, air-conditioners and different electronic gadgets used to decorate the Imo International Conference Centre, the Ahiajoku Centre as well as Government House offices, but were carted away prior to the expiration of the Okorocha administration. Also discovered in the warehouses were the corrugated roofing sheets removed from the Imo State Secretariat and the state House of Assembly, amongst other things. The busting of the warehouses, by the members of the Taskforce Committee on Recovery of Moveable Government Assets, attracted traders at the Alaba Market, taxi drivers and youths of the host community who were set to vent their anger on the former governor’s daughter on her arrival on the scene, before the firm and timely intervention of the state Commissioner of Police, Rabiu Ladodo and his men, who were present to forestall the breakdown of law and order. That, however, did not dissuade the youths and traders as they pelted Mrs. Nwosu with stones as she attempted to leave the scene before members of the recovery team persuaded the angry mob to desist. Speaking with journalists at the scene, the Chairman of the Recovery Committee, Hon. Jasper Ndubuaku said the team acted on a tip-off and discovered a massive warehouse where most of the looted government properties were hidden. He disclosed that some of the properties found in the warehouse include most of the looted items from Government House, such as beddings, window blinds, chairs and tables from the IICC and Imo Trade and Investment Centre, electronic gadgets, air conditioners amongst so many things that would take many trucks to evacuate. “Luckily, some citizens were attracted and the State Commissioner of Police, Rabiu Ladodo came around and decided that we seal this place. “The funny thing is that all those 0.7mm roofing sheets removed from the Imo State Secretariat and House of Assembly are all packed here. They removed all those things and then used point 0.35 mm to re-roof the state Secretariat and the House of Assembly,” said Ndubuaku. Also speaking, the Commissioner of Police, Rabiu Ladodo expressed his delight that his men had been able to forestall a breakdown of law and order. However, reacting, the Special Adviser to former Governor Rochas Okorocha, Mr. Sam Onwuemeodo said the committee had no business tampering with the warehouse purporting that it was among the properties sealed recently by EFCC for investigation. He alleged that the committee may after all not be interested in recovery but in looting the properties of the former First Lady, Nkechi Okorocha. Onwuemeodo also accused the Imo State government of witch hunt. (New Telegraph)    