As Mohammed Hassan Abdullahi (Magin garin Uke), a barrister, takes his seat at the Federal Executive Council (FEC) when eventually sworn in as Minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, no less a feat than success is expected of him by those know him. Though, relatively young in age, Abdullahi’s vibrancy and an uncommon sense of dedication to duty had seen him excelled easily in whatever assignment he had handled in the past, a fact which incapacitates even his most ardent political opponents from picking holes in his nomination as a minister. No doubt, Abdullahi comes to the Council with intimidating credentials in the service of his people and motherland that can only enrich discourse in that hallow gathering of few Nigerians. Having held the coveted position of Attorney General of Nasarawa State twice under two different administrations, Abdullahi is yet the immediate past Secretary to the Government (SSG) of the state, underlining the fact that this blue blood personality possesses some leadership qualities that make it impossible to be glossed over. Like the proverbial Golden Fish which has no hiding place, this Barrister and Solicitor of the Supreme Court of Nigeria started handling responsibilities and making a success of them early in life. As a legal practitioner, Abdullahi, who did his mandatory one year service with Ukpabi, Ukpabi & Co, Enugu, as pupil counsel in 1992, would go on to become an Associate Attorney/ Legal Practitioner at Prime Chambers (Messrs Olanipekun & Co) Abuja, between 1992 and 1994 and thereafter, Founding Partner, Tafida Chambers (Hammart & Co) in 1994 to date. Abdullahi began his foray into the corporate world in 2000 when he accepted the position of Deputy General Manager/ Company Secretary of Nasarawa Investment and Property Development Company Ltd (NIPDC) and between 2006 and 2008, as Group Company Secretary/Legal Adviser of Transnational Corporation of Nigeria(TransCorp) PLC. Not done with the sleekly and turbulent boardroom politics, the barrister went on to further engrave his authority on the corporate world when he became the Vice President/ Executive (Administration & Regulatory) of Intercell Ltd, Lagos between 2008 and 2011. After his adventures in the corporate world it was time for him to make his time and wisdom available to the service of his people. Hence, after his brief entry into the political terrain in the mid 90’s where he served as Deputy Chairman of Karu LGA between 1996 and 1997, Abdullahi returned to prove his mettle as a thorough bred grassroot politician who is always at ease with his people once again. He was appointed a Special Adviser to the then Executive Governor of Nasarawa State, Sen. Umaru Tanko Almakura in 2011, a position he held for the next four years. In this capacity he played a pivotal role that saw to the implementation of the national minimum wage in the state in 2011-2012, a move that endeared the then young and vulnerable Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) government in the state to the civil service. During talks leading up to the formation of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Abdullahi led the charge for a fair and equitable deal for the CPC as one of the legacy parties acting as the party stalwart from his state. As a strong voice in the then lower Plateau, he was part of the eminent personalities that worked for the creation of Nasarawa State in 1996 and and as an emerging statesman, he later joined in the struggle for the enthronement of the present democratic dispensation in 1999. He served as the agent of his party for the 2019 Presidential elections which saw President Muhammadu Buhari winning Nasarawa State for the first time since his first contest in 2003. He was one of the key footsoldiers who ensured that the choice of their principal, Abdullahi Alhaji Sule, won the ticket of the APC in 2018, a role he further played in securing the ultimate victory for the party at the governorship polls in 2019. As a core loyalist, Abdullahi who was primed and positioned as the most favoured to win the ticket of the APC for the Nasarawa-west Senatorial zone, abandoned the race to the dismay of his teaming supporters at the behest of his principal, Senator Almakura, paving the way for Sen Abdullahi Adamu to return to the red chamber for the third time. Many have said it would be difficult to have an SSG in future in the state whose stewardship would eclipse that of Abdullahi and many still have described such averment as extreme but they may be right considering that as additional responsibility, he supervised the state Bond Issuance Programme Tranche 1&2 from the Capital Market which secured N 10billion for specific infrastructural development in the state, computerisation and digitalisation of the operations of the state government and providing platform for e-government and supervision of government corporate investments in liaison with ministry of finance. Abdullahi also ensured the building of the new befitting SSG’s complex to its completion. Born 51 years ago to the royal family of Uke in Karu LGA of Nasarawa State, Abdullahi is the traditional title holder of Magajin Garin Uke. The prince, whose younger brother is the present ruler of Uke Kingdom, is married with three children. Pundits have submitted that when eventually sworn in Abdullahi looks set to replicate his success string as a minister of whatever ministry Mr President would find him worthy of supervising. •Adamu wrote in from Keffi, Nasarawa State and can be reached on adamulawyer@gmail.com 