Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The All Progressives Congress (APC)
leaders are fighting dirty in the bid to ensure their names are contained in the
ministerial list despite the secrecy surrounding the compilation of the list of
nominees for the cabinet of President Muhammadu Buhari, top notch of the All
Progressives Congress (APC) are fighting dirty in the bid to make the list. Major powerbrokers, in collaboration with their allies, are
locked in a desperate battle to secure nomination, in spite of the position of
governors elected on the APC platform that the president had the prerogative to
determine who makes the list. Reports indicated on Sunday that former governors, ministers and
ex-members of the National Assembly as well as APC stalwarts are among those
digging in at the state chapters of the party over who makes the expected list
of the ministerial nominees of the president. Ocheni,
Adeyemi, Bawa, Akawu slugging it out in Kogi In Kogi State, Nigerian Tribune learnt that the battle for the
ministerial slot started immediately the APC was declared the winner of the
presidential election by the Independent National Election Commission (INEC),
as the APC leaders across the three senatorial districts commenced lobbying for
the seat. Among those that were said to have shown interest in becoming
minister were the immediate past Minister of State for Labour and Productivity,
Professor Stephen Ocheni; national woman leader of the APC, Hajia Salamatu
Bawa. Both Ocheni and Bawa are from the same senatorial district. Others eyeing the appointment are Honourable Saliu Seidu Akawu
from Kogi Local Government in Kogi West, a former senator that represented Kogi
West senatorial district, Smart Adeyemi and Honourable Suleiman Baba Ali. However, since the state governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, is from
the central senatorial district, nobody from the area had shown interest in the
ministerial position. The immediate past minister was said to have intensified
lobbying in order to retain his seat. The former minister, who was the Dean of
Faculty of Management Science of the Kogi State University, Anyigba, before his
foray into politics, was said to be banking on the connection and the
relationship he had built in the presidency during his first stint as a
minister. However, his chances may be slim as other party members see him
as an outsider that did not command much followership among the members. The people, also complained about his record of service in the
over two years that he served as a minister under President Buhari. According
to them, many party members did not feel his impact. Akawu, on his part, is a foundation member of the APC in the
state. He was appointed the commissioner for budget and economic
planning between 2003 and 2005, and commissioner for water resources and rural
development between 2005 and 2007. He was appointed chairman, Governing Board
of Rubber Research Institute of Nigeria (RRIN) in 2018 to date. The Koton Karfe-born politician is believed to be banking on his
loyalty and commitment to APC in his quest to become the next minister from the
state, but the major challenge facing Akawu, according to insiders, is the camp
he belongs in the politics of the state He is said to be in accord with one of the major challengers of
Bello for the governorship ticket of the party, who is also a former Chief of
Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Jibril Usman. Adeyemi’s ambition is said to be enjoying the blessing of the
state government and Bello is reported to be favourably disposed to him
becoming a minister after losing the senatorial election to the incumbent, Dino
Melaye. The two-term senator is also said to have the backing of the presidency
as he is believed to have the experience and the ability to hold the party
together. Another factor working in favour of Adeyemi is that he is from
Kogi -West senatorial district, which is currently favoured by zoning in the
state for political balancing. The national woman leader of the APC was also said to have
thrown her hat into the ring as far as the ministerial seat is concerned.
Although she is not favoured by the party hierarchy in the state, Bawa wants to
take advantage of her closeness to the First Lady, Hajia Aisha Buhari, to
clinch the seat. Slot splits
Abdulrazaq, Mohammed camps in Kwara Development in the APC in Kwara State showed that the ruling
party was polarised into factions. A faction of the party is said to be loyal to Governor
Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, while the immediate past minister of information,
Alhaji Lai Mohammed, holds another faction. Political pundits gave evidence to the development with the
absence of the immediate past minister at both the APC governor’s inauguration
and Democracy Day celebration in Ilorin on May 29 and June 12, respectively. While it was gathered that the immediate reason was over the
control of the party, it was learnt that the party members loyal to the former
minister included leadership of the party, just as elected party members are in
the camp of the governor. Investigations also revealed that the camp of the governor was
not favourable to the return of the former minister into President Buhari’s
cabinet, as many groups believed to be loyalists of the governor had come out
against his reappointment. Some party figures touted as next minister included former
governorship aspirants in the last general election, Professor Abdulraheeem
Oba, Moshood Mustapha, Yaman Abdulahi, Lukman Mustapha, Saliu Mustapha, among
others. Oshiomhole, Obaseki feud worsening situation in Edo In Edo State, there were serious issues concerning nomination
from the state due to the feud between the supporters of the national chairman
of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and the state governor, Godwin Obaseki. Three names: former deputy governor to Oshiomhole, Mr Pius
Odubu; former member of the House of Representatives, Mr Patrick “Igodomigodo”
Obahiagbon and ex-Edo Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr Henry
Idahagbon, were said to have been submitted by Oshiomhole to President Buhari
for consideration. Supporters of Obaseki were, however, said to be very angry with
the list on the ground that he was left out in the choice of potential
ministers by his predecessor. They contended that in line with convention, it was the governor
who ought to draw the list in league with the national chairman and other
stakeholders. Against the backdrop of the opposition, an APC source who would
not want his name in print, said the names were yet to be forwarded to President
Buhari for consideration. APC elders back
Bauchi ex-gov In Bauchi State, a political pressure group, Bauchi South All
Progressives Congress (APC) Elders Forum, called on President Buhari to
disregard calls by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state against
considering former Governor Mohammed Abubakar for a ministerial slot. Chairman of the forum, Alhaji Bamanga Mohammed, flanked by his
secretary, Alhaji Mohammed Sani, urged the president not to forget those who
stood behind him and the party in the last general election. He warned that “any attempt to cause chaos or trouble in the
state by any person or group of persons of whatever status or capacity will not
be tolerated or condoned by us as elders of the state. “Abubakar is the leader of APC in Bauchi State and is most
qualified to represent the state as minister of the Federal Republic of
Nigeria. Those who want to scuttle his emergence as a member of Buhari’s second
term cabinet do not mean the state well,” he alleged. In the same vein, the APC faulted the PDP and the chairman,
Bauchi State Financial Crimes and Injustice, Alhaji Bibi Dogo for petitioning
President Buhari not to consider Abubakar for any political appointment. Onu, Ucha in
supremacy contest in Ebonyi In Ebonyi State, former Minister for Science and Technology, Dr
Ogbonnaya Onu and 2015 governorship candidate of the APC, Senator Julius Ali
Ucha, are at each other’s throat for the ministerial slot for the state. Both leaders, who have been fighting dirty over supremacy, have
taken to the media to X-ray their political profiles and relevance in politics. According to some members of the party, though Onu could lay
claim to being the leader of Ebonyi APC, he was being careful not to stain his
name and integrity. It would be recalled that there was much agitation in June 2015
for equity and fairness, which led to speculations that the position of the SGF
had been conceded to the South-East zone with the media becoming awash that the
former national chairman of the defunct All Nigerians Peoples Party (ANPP) was
to get the appointment before it was ceded to the North. A similar dummy was sold to the public last week by the rival
camps, lobbying for the ministerial position, with the social media platforms
claiming that President Buhari had named Onu as the next SGF. However, Peter Elebe, one of his loyalists, described the rumour
as a misrepresentation of fact, just as he tried to pooh-pooh the political
profile of another ministerial hopeful, Senator Ucha, published in a national daily,
which reported that Onu had never won any keenly contested election in his
life. Lalong, Dalung
camp strategising in Plateau The camp of the Plateau State governor, Solomon Lalong and the
immediate past minister of sports, Solomon Dalung, are involved in a battle of
wits over the slot for the state. A source close to Dalung claimed he was independently making
moves to be part of the next cabinet by exploring his connection with the
president and other notable personalities in the North, while the list of the
governor for the slot included the state chairman of the APC, Honnourable Latep
Dabang; former member of House of Representatives, Honourable Lumumba Dah Adeh;
immediate past member of the House, Honourable Suleiman Kwande; former Minister
of State for Information, Honourable Dasuki Nakande and Mrs Pauline Tallen, a
former deputy governor of Plateau State. A source revealed that some groups, both within and outside
Plateau State, are said to be lobbying that Mrs Tallen become the Secretary to
the Government of the Federation, considering her influence in the corridor of
power, coupled with her association with the First Lady, Hajia Aisha Buhari. Five APC
leaders on queue in Enugu In Enugu, five APC leaders are reaching out to certain quarters
they believe could put a word in on their behalf concerning their ambition. “As I speak to you, notable names like Osita Okechukwu, the
Director-General of the Voice of Nigeria (VON); Mrs Juliet Ibekaku, former
Special Aide to President Buhari; ex-Governor Sullivan Chime; the state
chairman of APC, Dr Ben Nwoye, Senator Ayogu Eze, Chief Okey Ezea, are being
peddled as those likely to be considered for the ministerial slot for the
state,” a source, who preferred anonymity, said. Fashola,
Ambode, Obanikoro set to grab slot in Lagos The touted names from Lagos State for ministerial appointment
included the immediate past Minister of Works, Power and Housing, Mr Babatunde
Raji Fashola; immediate past governor of Lagos State, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode; a
former Minister of State for Defence, Senator Musiliu Obanikoro and a top shot
of the party in the state, Chief Demola Seriki. It was learnt that they were rallying party leaders and most
especially the APC national leader, Bola Tinubu, to buy into their ambition,
with ministerial hopeful shuttling between Lagos and Abuja. “They’ve just concluded the National Assembly leadership
elections wherein Honourable Femi Gbajabiamila became the Speaker, House of
Representatives and Senator Ahmad Lawan emerged the Senate President. So, we
are left with who becomes the next minister from Lagos State. That is the next
assignment that needs his (Tinubu’s) attention now,” said a source. The source pointed to some recent photographs taken in Abuja
showing one or few of the interested parties positioning themselves for office
posing with him, an indication that the battle for who picked the ministerial
ticket had since shifted to the Federal Capital Territory. Subtle
maneuvers in Rivers In Rivers State, there are subtle attempts by different interest
groups in the APC over the ministerial slot for the state. For example, supporters of the Magnus Abe group, whose legal
battles against the primaries of the party led to the disqualification of the
APC from the election, believed that the president is better disposed to Abe
and might make him minister instead of returning the erstwhile minister of
transportation, Rotimi Amaechi. Also, Dason Nemieboka, a member of the Accord in Rivers State,
who broke off with the Dumo Lulu-Briggs, said the president should make a clean
sweep of his last cabinet and appoint fresh hands. For the camp of Amaechi, his reappointment is a matter of time
as they claimed the former minister performed excellently. Besides, they believe that despite contrary claims from other
quarters, the minister still enjoys a close relationship with the president and
is, therefore, most likely to be reappointed.