By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki has informed that he is innocent and has no clarification to make and as such not in media war with the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC). Saraki who reminded that the public has better understanding of the issues raised by the EFCC in its statement yesterday, disclosed this on Monday in a statement signed by Special Adviser (Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu on behalf of the Media Office of Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki. The statement reads in full: The attention of the Media Office of Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, has been drawn to the claims contained in the Press Statement issued yesterday (June 30, 2019) by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and we believe we should make some clarifications for members of the public to have a better understanding of the issues raised therein. Dr. Saraki has not engaged in any media war. Rather, Dr. Saraki has been the one at the receiving end of the media onslaught sponsored from the office of the EFCC. Various documents and court processes from the agency have been given to a particular newspaper for publication. In fact, while the EFCC distributed copies of its letter to the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court immediately it was submitted, we are still surprised how Dr. Saraki’s response written early May found its way into a newspaper last Sunday. It should be known that if we were interested in leaking the letter, we would not wait for seven weeks to do that. Dr. Saraki believes he is on firm ground on the points of law and has nothing to be afraid of. He is innocent of the charges. We need to reiterate that Dr. Saraki is not interested in obstructing any investigation by the EFCC or any security agency. While the EFCC claims that it is investigating the Office of the Senate President between 2015 and 2019, we make bold to say that it is just on a wild goose chase. That Office has nothing to do with contract awards and handling of the finances of the National Assembly. These are functions of the bureaucracy of the National Assembly, otherwise known as the National Assembly Management. On its persistent probe of the tenure of Dr. Saraki as Governor of Kwara State between 2003 and 2011, we maintain that all the issues the EFCC are presently raising were the same issues that are contained in four of the charges filed before the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) and taken before the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court. The CCT case went beyond the subject matter of asset declaration. They raised issues about the assets, how and when they were acquired, the sources of their funding and the banking transactions of Dr. Saraki. That is why we maintain that since the issues have been determined by the courts up to the Supreme Court, the EFCC is just on a persecution and smear campaigns with its current investigations. At the time the CCT charges were filed, it was generally believed some of the charges should not have been lumped up with the asset declaration issues. However, in their desperation to nail Dr. Saraki, some of the charges that contained insinuations that Kwara State funds were paid into accounts owned by him and companies in which he has interests were filed. And twice, the charges went before the highest court in the land and he was discharged and acquitted. It is also the reason that Dr. Saraki believes that the current investigation constitutes an infringement on his fundamental human rights. And in the exercise of his belief in the judiciary, he filed a case seeking the court’s intervention for the protection and enforcement of the rights. Signed Yusuph Olaniyonu 
Special Adviser (Media and Publicity) 
The Media Office of Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki