By Babatunde Ogunrinde Lagos – Rilwan “Real One” Oladosu, the West African Boxing Union (WABU) Lightweight champion, on Monday said he was ready to defeat Hammed Ganiyu “Ese Hammed” at the Gotv Boxing Night 19. The Oladosu/Hammed clash which comes up July 21 among six other fights would hold at the Indoor Sports Hall of the National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos. Oladosu told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos that he was aware of the expectations of his fans and assured them of victory. He said that the lightweight category had the best boxers and it remained the most competitive with tough and hard punching boxers like Joe Boy (Oto Joseph), Berinja (Tope Agboola), Hamzat Mubarak and Hammed. The boxer said they were his rivals and was ready to fight any of them anytime, adding that he still had respect for them. “These guys and many more in the Lightweight division are very talented and they make the division a very interesting one because they work hard to achieve their results. “I have the desire to challenge for the African belt and dethrone the current holder Joe Boy who happens to be a Nigerian. “This is my target, but first my focus is on the fight coming up on July 21, where I will crush Hammed,’’ Oladosu said. The coming GOtv Boxing Night 19 is sponsored by Multichoice Nigeria Plc and will be headlined by the international Welterweight challenge between reigning West African Boxing Union welterweight fight. The current champion, Nigeria’s Rilwan “Babyface” Babatunde will face Eden Biki of Ghana. The event will also feature prominent professional boxers in the country competing in different weight categories; Tope “TP Rock” Musa will face Kazeem “The Light” Oliwo in a national champion duet. Tope “Berinja” Agboola will face reigning African Boxing Union (ABU) Lightweight champion, Oto “Joe Boy” Joseph. Former ABU Featherweight title champion, Waidi “Skoro” Usman, returning to action faces Taiwo “Esepo” Agbaje in a national challenge contest. In the Light Welterweight division, Akeem “Sugar Boy” Olaiwola will square it up with Waheed “Showmax” Shogbamu, while Adeyemi “Spirit” Adekanla will take on Isaac “I Star” Chukwudi. (NAN).BAO/JPE/PDE