By Stellamaris Ashinze Lagos – Some experts at the Information and Communications Telecommunications (ICTEL) Expo 2019 on Wednesday said that Nigeria had the population to build the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Sqn. Ldr. Adefola Amoo, Chief Executive Officer, Grid Code, stated this at the ICTEL Expo 2019 held in Lagos on Tuesday. Amoo said the country with a population of about 200 million and 90 million Internet users could build the Fourth Industrial Revolution. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the theme of the fifth edition of the expo was: “Fourth Industrial Revolution: The Nigerian Story’’. Amoo said that Nigeria was in a much better position to generate data for businesses that could generate income. According to him, we are not being deliberate because we have a population that can build the Fourth Industrial Revolution that will generate the whole Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by making use of the data around. “Clearly, the Fourth Industrial Revolution products which are Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things, among others, can be financially worthy. “Nigerian Communications Commission should be most credible and in a much better position to generate data for business. “There is need to train people with sufficient interest in data science,’’ he said. In his presentation on “Artificial Intelligence for Green Smart City Development’’, Mr David Adio-Moses, a Lecturer at the University of Lagos, said that a city could be defined as “smart’’ through investments in human and social capital. Adio-Moses said investments in human, social, traditional and modern (ICT) communication infrastructure would boost sustainable economic development and high quality of life. According to him, a smart city uses digital technologies or Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) to enhance quality and performance of urban services. He also said a smart city would also reduce costs and resource consumption and engage more effectively and actively with its citizens. He, however, identified eight key aspects that defined a Smart City: smart governance, smart energy, smart building, smart mobility, smart infrastructure, smart technology, smart healthcare and smart citizens. The Expo was organised by the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI). (NAN)