Senator Ajayi Boroffice is the federal lawmaker
representing Ondo North senatorial district at the National Assembly. In this interview with the Assistant News Editor, Sundiata
Post,Chibuike
Nwabuko, Senator
 Boroffice talked about the all-important
planned security summit by the  senate;
the administration of criminal justice system in Nigeria and his legislative
agenda among others for his people as their representative in the 9th
senate. Excerpts: Question:
Nigeria is confronted with insecurity today and the senate is proposing a
summit, what do you think should be the main focus of the summit. There can’t
be any other focus of the summit than finding a lasting solution to the
insecurity issue of the nation. And all those that are stakeholders of the
nation would be invited to make suggestions and based on those suggestions, we will
be able find lasting solution because everybody is concerned. So that would be
the main focus and there can’t be any other focus. Question:  what would you say is the remote and
immediate cause of the spate of insecurity in the country? I won’t be
fair to myself and to your readers to say that I know the remote and immediate
causes. That would be left for the security agencies because you can’t say you
know what is going on more than the security agencies who are trained to catty
out investigations. So I am not in a position to tell you what the cause is.
What we are experiencing is the manifestations and I believe that government is
doing its best to solve the problem. Question:
Looking at the administration of criminal justice, it is only in Nigeria that
an armed robber is arrested and he will beg you to take him to the police and
from the police to the court because eventually he would be granted bail. Don’t
you think that there is need to strengthen the administration of criminal
justice system to give the judiciary more bite to confront some of these
problems? Well, we
confirmed the Chief Justice of Nigeria yesterday and we raised a number of issues
and how to improve the system of justice in Nigeria and he has indicated desire
to improve on what he met on ground. We hope that all these things would be
taking into consideration. Question:
As an experienced lawmaker, it would also not be strange to ask you what your
legislative agenda for your people for the next four years would be. Senator has
three major mandates namely; to appropriate projects, carry out oversight
functions and to legislate. Those are the three main functions of senators and
you cannot do anything outside them.  And
you have to also fix that into the legislative agenda of the senate itself which,
I’m sure by tomorrow, it would be unfolded. Question:
What do you say is the dare need of your people despite the fact that you don’t
award contract but you can also influence what your people needs intervention
most? What my
people need is not different from what is needed in any other community in the
country. They need infrastructure, good road, good water, constant supply of
electricity, good school not only in terms of good building but instructional
materials like teachers, good hospitals. Those are the things they need and if
they are farmers, they need road to carry produce from the farms to the market,
so that is majorly what they need and that is what most of the communities in
Nigeria need. And once you have all that you will be happy. Question:
This is also an opportunity to correct this misconception. You were recently
quoted to have said that you cannot go to your village because of activities of
kidnappers. Well, some
of you are toxic journalists. I have corrected it and some of you journalists
are politician and one does not know what is behind your actions sometimes. Don’t
forget that apart from being a politician, I am the Asiwaju of Akokoland.  Which means, I have to be in constant touch
with my people? So how can I say I cannot go home. We have reacted to it. I am
going home this weekend with my colleagues in the south west caucus, the
following week is Zaka-day, the day my town people come home from all parts of
the world to celebrate our own new year, so I have to be there. Then I haven’t
done the thanksgiving for my election that will come by late August or early
September and that will be done in six local governments. At least I can say
that I don’t have any fear going home. We are not saying there are no concerns,
there are concerns everywhere whether in the northern part, southern and
eastern parts, there are concerns the main thing is that one has to be careful,
that what we are saying. Question:
Distinguished still on insecurity, do you think the centrally controlled Police
Force can solve the issue of insecurity in the country. Well, we should ask them whether they have any
problem but what you should know is that we are a country of about 200 million
people with a police force of 300,000.So when you look at it, you will see that
they have a very heavy burden and challenge. For 300,000
policemen to police a population of 200 million people. You can see that they
are trying their best because the issue of armed robbery or kidnapping- you are
fighting a war without frontier, you are facing warlords that are independent.
The group operating in ‘A’ has no business with group operating in ‘B’.  So there is no central command that you can
negotiate with. When you have insecurity in the Niger Delta, we know that they
had a sort of organization. Government was able to negotiate with them and then
Amnesty programme was done and it solved the problem of kidnapping and bombing
in the Niger Delta. But here, we are confronted with people that you cannot
define their territory, you cannot define their organization so there is no
central command that you can negotiate with, so you just have war lords, it is
like guerilla warfare.