The Presidential Tribunal opened this morning as the PDP and Atiku/Obi’s counsel tendered the remaining evidence from Kano State.The National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole made his first appearance today at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal. Comrade Oshiomhole who has been absent in previous sessions appeared on behalf of his Party, the All Progressives Congress (APC). Star WitnessA factional National Chairman of the APC, Alhaji Buba Galadima, testified today in favour of the Peoples Democratic Party and it’s Presidential Candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. Alhaji Galadima during his testimony said •That he has been a close associate of the Presidential Candidate of the APC, Muhammadu Buhari In 2003, 2007, 2011 up till 2015. That he fell out with him because he ( uhari) was not giving the country good governance. •That the APC failed in most of the promises they made to Nigerians before the 2015 general elections.•That he has been involved in promoting good governance in Nigeria since 1966. •That the President Buhari-led APC government also failed to provide security and other infrastructures promised by the Party before the general elections.INEC STAFF TESTIFY ON TRANSMISSION OF RESULTThe PDP and Atiku/Obi also presented evidence from Zamfara state in addition to other evidences from other states. Currently on witness box is an INEC Registration Technical Officer, Obi Peter Ijeoma. He testified to the court that he was involved in transmitting results to the server as instructed by INEC. He had signed an affidavit in support of PDP and Atiku/Obi in court. He was the supervisor of the Ward collation center during the February 23, 2019 Presidential Election  and he was supervised by the LGA collation Officer. He was asked by the Buhari lead counsel, Wole Olanipekun, if he has seen the INEC guidelines but he replied that he is aware of the guidelines given to them by INEC concerning their duty as Technical Officer. He was asked by the APC counsel if he was employed by INEC for such job and he answered and provided a letter from INEC certifying his employment as INEC Tech Officer for the Presidential election. Dr. Livy Uzoukwu called witness number two on his star witness list: Ebenezer Olanikan, another INEC tech officer who transmitted results to INEC server. He was asked by INEC counsel what the name and number of INEC server in which he transmitted results to, but he answered that the server is attached to the Card reader and that they were trained to only transmit results to the server. First of all, the INEC counsel tried to confused the witness by asking him if this is the first time he is entering the premises of the court of appeal and he said no. Buhari counsel Olanipekun asked if he has seen the INEC guidelines and he said yes. He was again asked by Olanipekun if the guidelines says that if the card reader does not work that INEC requested that they should allow voters to vote manually and he said no. Wole Olanipekun tried to confuse him again by changing the question on manual voting and the witness said manual voting was not allowed during the Presidential election. He was asked if he transmitted the results to server himself or someone did it for him but he answered that he did it himself. That he transmitted the results of the Presidential Election to the INEC server via a code provided to them by INEC.  He was asked by Olanipekun on the particulars of the INEC server and he said the server is connected to the smart card reader and that he transmitted the results to the server as ordered by INEC. The APC counsel asked the witness to look at paragraph 8 of his signed affidavit and asked him to read it out. The witness read the statement saying that the results were collated by him and transmitted to the server via a code provided to them by the INEC. APC counsel asked if the results can be transmitted without the code and he said yes. And the APC counsel asked him if the code is attached to his witness statement and he said no but that he has the code in his mobile phone. He was asked if the voting went well in his polling unit and he said yes.He was asked again if the voters were properly accredited and verified and he said yes. And the witness was asked to step aside. The PDP and Atiku/Obi lead counsel, Dr Livy Uzoukwu, continued with tendering of documents. He tendered form CF 001 of the second respondent, Muhammadu Bubari. INEC Form CF 001 is the form filled by President Muhammadu Bubari, candidate of the APC before the February 23, 2019 Presidential Election. *The form contained evidence of the information and credentials presented by President Buhari to INEC certifying his Eligibility in the election. *Recall that PDP and Atiku/Obi’s Petition on Ground 4 and 5, shows a clear case of perjury. President Buhari had deposed to an affidavit on schools he attended and investigation has shown that those schools were not in existence as of the time of President Buhari’s claimUzoukwu presented a receipt of payment certification for the documents tendered (Form CF001) dated 18th of March 2019 and a latter from INEC Officer also in respect of the same exhibit. The receipt and letter were both admitted by the court in evidence but rejected by all the respondents including INEC that provided the documents.Uzoukwu presented another evidence from INEC, form EC 18. This form was not rejected by counsel to the respondents and it was admitted in court as exhibits. He also presented copies of press releases, 10 in number showing clear evidence of INEC position on electronic transmission of results. This press documents were admitted in court as evidence and the receipt from INEC with an acknowledgement letter in support of the said documents. All the documents were rejected by the respondents. The court is now on recess and will resume by 2pmThe court resumes from recess.Dr. Livy Uzoukwu of the PDP and Atiku/Obi presented three documents …1. Total number of registered voters and total number of collected PVCs of the 2019 General Elections. 2. Receipt of payments  in respect of the said documents dated 24th  March 2019 3. Letter of acknowledgment from INEC in respect of the same documents dated 25th March 2019. These documents were again rejected by all the counsel to the respondents, including INEC that provided the documents. The documents were however admitted by the court in evidence.Uzoukwu tendered six additional newspaper publications from Daily Trust, Nigerian Tribune, Vanguard, ThisDay and Sunday Tribune all duly certified by the National Library with receipt dated 8th of April 2019. These documents were not objected by INEC counsel. Same with Buhari and APC counsel. The documents were admitted by the court in evidence  FIRST WITNESS Election tribunal: Why I fell out with Buhari —Buba GaladimaBuba Galadima, who is a former ally of President Muhammadu Buhari, told the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal, on Monday, denied the claim that he fell out with the President in 2015 because he was not appointed a minister.Galadima, who is the first witness for the Peoples Democratic Party and its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, said he fell out with Buhari because of alleged injustice in his administration, lack of inclusiveness and failure of the administration to secure Nigeria.“You fell out with the 2nd respondent (Buhari) because he did not make you a minister in 2015,” Olanipekun said.Responding, Galadima said, “No. You should know that I fought all the previous governments since 1999 because of injustice.“We made good promises to Nigerians, including justice, inclusiveness, and to secure the country, which he has failed to do.“It has always been part of my characteristics to fight injustice.”He confirmed that he had supported Buhari in the 2003, 2007, 2011 and 2015 election cycles until the 2019 election.While being cross-examined by the All Progressives Congress’ lawyer, Lateef Fagbemi (SAN), the witness said he was aware that there is no registered party called the Reformed APC (the faction of the ruling APC which Buba Galadima heads), but maintained that he (Galadima) was still the chairman of the group.He, however, said he remained a member of the APC since had “not been sacked”.Galadima, a spokesperson for the Atiku Campaign Organisation, “I’m still a member of APC. I have not been sacked. We are in court. I don’t want to be subjudice.” The Tribunal is back in session after recess.Dr. Livy Uzoukwu of the PDP and Atiku/Obi is up standing presenting an evidence … Vanguard Newspaper of 21 January 2015 and November 1, 2018. All of the Vanguard Newspapers and the third is a receipt of certification by INEC dated 17th April 2019. The documents were not rejected by the respondents and it was admitted as evidence in court.Dr. Livy Uzoukwu also tendered both INEC Guidelines 2019 and INEC Manual for Election officials 2019 and a receipt dated the 24th of June 2019 certifying the two documents. The INEC counsel rejected the attached receipt but admitted the INEC Guidelines and Manual for Election Officers. Counsel to Buhari and APC did same. But the documents were admitted in court as evidenceDr. Livy Uzoukwu presented a bundle of documents from National Archives, Kaduna and a receipt dated 15th March 2019 being payment for certification  of archival documents.The documents were rejected by all the respondents, but admitted in court as evidence. These documents shows clearly that the schools President Buhari claimed to have attended were not in existence as of the time stated by him on oath. EXPLOSIVE TESTIMONY FROM JIGAWA WITNESS:“I signed presidential election result under duress, Mr. Mohammed Tata, a fifth witness from Jigawa tells tribunal.“I was harassed and intimidated to sign the result sheet under duress. I was told that if I refused to sign, my name will be removed from the N-Power Programme.”Asked if he was dissatisfied that President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC scored over 700 votes in his polling unit, the witness said: “There was no score because there was no election.“I am a Muslim. I believe in destiny and what God decides will happen. Whether PDP win or the APC, I don’t have a problem with that. All I want is that I need justice in my country.“I don’t care whether my party won or lost, but I am not happy about what happened.”Asked if he was given a copy of the result, he said: “No I was not given because there was no peace.“I followed due process” by reporting the harassment, but the culprits were neither arrested nor prosecuted.“I did not mention their name in my statement “for security reasons.“I am still working with the N-Power because I signed the result. If I didn’t, they would have sacked me.”   