Abuja (Sundiata Post) – A South South group under the auspices of
the Niger Delta Self Determination Movement, NDSDM, has issued a stern warning
to the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government over its planned
establishment of Ruga settlement for Fulani herdsmen across the country. In a statement
made available to newsmen, which was part of agreement in an emergency meeting
held in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, the group warned that there is
no land in the Niger Delta left for the establishment of RUGA settlement. The statement
signed by Annkio Briggs, its Coordinator, the reached the following decisions:
“That the electorates of the Niger Delta Region and States owes it to
themselves to patiently wait until the ongoing court case concerning the
February 2019 Presidential Elections before taking a final and critical
decisions concerning the APC Federal Government of Nigeria, and as we take note
of the so far released results of the different National and International
Organisations accredited by INEC who officially monitored the 2019 Presidential
Elections. “That the
Federal Government of Nigeria, the President Buhari lead APC Government have No Constitutional
Rights to a forcefully under any guise or for any reasons take any piece of
Land from any LGA in any of the 36 states that make up Nigeria, in any Region
or in any LGA. “That the
Ethnic Nationalities of all of the 6 Niger Delta States Our State Governments,
Senators, Members of House of Representatives, State Houses of Assembly
Members, Federal Government, the other 30 states of Nigeria, Africa, UN and the
World that NO PIECE OF LAND, or SEA FRONT, CREEKS, SWAMPS, MANGROVES &
FORESTS within the Niger Delta Region also referred to as the South-South is to
be given, leased or sold to NON NIGER DELTANS for the purpose or purposes of Cattle
Grazing, Cattle Colonies, Ranching, Farming, Routing, RUGA, etc specially or
specifically to any other Ethnic Nationality, Religion or Culture for any
reason what so ever or because of any hardship experienced, either such are
natural or man-made. “That the
recognized Niger Delta people of the Riverrines, Creeks, Swamps, Mangroves and
Oceanic are the INDIGENOUS PEOPLES of the Niger Delta region and will not be
oppressed into ceding a metre of the mentioned places, as without these
Indigenous peoples of the Riverine, Mangroves, Swamps, Creeks, Rivers and
Oceanic Communities Nigeria will have no Rights to the Waters, Rivers and
Shorelines of the Niger Delta not to speak of the 200 Nautical miles. “The incessant
verbal attacks, and the threats targeted at the people, Government of Rivers
State and Governor Wike of Rivers State, will not threaten Us Christians the
Indigenous Owners of what we proudly today refer to as Niger Delta Oil, Gas and
Several other Natural resources rich Region (for now in Nigeria) into silence. “The latest
attacks, threats and insults are obviously indicative of the frustrations been
felt by the oppressive gang in Nigeria to forcefully take Over and Control the
Natural Resources rich and 100 percent Christian Rivers State of the Niger
Delta Region. “That Rivers
State Government and People have so far allowed the building of Mosques in our
beloved Christian Rivers State and Niger Delta is because we the different
Ethnic and Indigenous Nationalities of Rivers State and the Niger Delta region
have always been tolerant and accommodating of other Ethnic Nationalities and
Religions. It is
foolishness for any Ethnic Nationalities indigenous or non-indigenous to
Nigeria to assume us to be a weak people by whatever Choice of assessment. “The accommodating
and loving teachings of Jesus Christ the Son of the Living GOD is not the
teachings of ‘DIE THAT YOUR ENEMY MAY LIVE. IT IS A TEACHING THAT WE SHOULD
LIVE THAT OUR LIVES WILL GLORIFY THE LIVING GOD.’” The NDSDM said
that Governor Nyesome Wike had not declared Rivers State a Christian State,
adding that the State had always been and will remain a Christian State. It said that
Gov. Wike only stated the obvious truth and fact that Rivers State was a
Christian State. It added, “Not
only is Rivers is a Christian State, it will remain a Christian State, if there
is any doubt in anyone’s mind or any groups thinking or any political cabals
mind let us have a referendum and a census to determine whether Rivers State
and the Niger Delta people are Christians. “That there are
Muslims who are not Indigenes of Rivers State and Niger Delta have lived in our
Communities, LGA, States, and Region and practice their religion freely and
unmolested does not mean River State and Niger Delta region is anything other
than a Christian State and Region. “If any other
Christian state in Nigeria or Niger Delta is too political to state the fact
that their State is a Christian State let there be no doubt that Rivers State
people say without fear, favour or apology that Rivers State is a Christian
State and that Gov. Wike is only stating the very obvious as he knows it not
only as the Governor of Rivers State but as a Son of The Christian Rivers State
Soil. “That Nigeria
is ‘facing religious and ethnic crises’ is because a group of people had the
audacity, temerity, and impunity to recklessly believe that for some cultural
and religious beliefs that Nigeria and the majorly Christian Indigenous people
of Nigeria belong to them, and have unguarded carried on illegal, murderous and
unconstitutional acts against Christians, by taking over the political power
and control of Nigeria, the control and ownership of their ancestral homelands
and of the resources of the Christian Niger Delta people and region. “It is people
who are short on intelligence and who are reckless that will continue to fool
and delude themselves that the evil and injustice they have carried on against
us will continue, that the genocide and pogrom, and land grabbing will
continue. “The NDSDM
while not wanting to dignify actors and perpetrators of greed must point out
that the Analogue governors are the ones who refuse to allow children of the
poor to use the Almajari schools built by President Jonathan to acquire
knowledge that will take them out of begging, poverty and slavery. “Analogue
Governors are the ones who pass laws to oppress the rights of Christians to
preach, worship, evangelize or own land to build churches in their states and
yet believe they have a higher right to be free to practice their religion, and
build Mosques of worship for themselves in Christian states and regions. “This is not
the last time Nigeria and the world will hear Gov. Wike, Rivers Indigenes and
Servants of the Living GOD and followers of Jesus Christ, and Students of the
Holy Spirit say without fear or favour that Rivers State is a Christian State.
Niger Delta Region is a CHRISTIAN REGION. “It is not
Christian Governors of the Niger Delta Region or Gov. Wike of Rivers State that
cooked religious fanaticism and dished it up to Nigeria. “It is not
Christians that have brought their non-Nigeria fanatical kit and kin from
across other African countries to implement RUGA, Cattle Grazing in other
people’s land, Land Grabbing, Killings, running wild in Northern Nigeria, South
West, South East Raping, Kidnapping, raping, murdering and displacing
Christians in their ancestral homelands, planning to set up vigilantes in the
homelands of Indigenes.”