By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Senate on Tuesday postponed its recess due to commence on Thursday to next week Friday to give an accelerated consideration to the screening of the forty three ministerial nominees it received yesterday from President Muhammadu Buhari. It has also announced the suspension of its standing rules and has shifted its sitting days to include Monday and Friday and to sit till 10pm in the night to ensure it concludes the screening process thoroughly before commencing on recess on Friday next week. The Senate also suspended its Standing Rules to enable it to expedite the screening of the 43 ministerial nominees who include former Works, Housing and Power Minister, Mr. Babatunde Fashola (SAN); former Minority Leader in the Eight National Assembly, Senator Godswill Akpabio; former Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed; former Minister of Labour, Dr. Chris Ngige; former Minister of Education, Alhaji Adamu Adamu; former Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami (SAN); former Osun State Governor, Alhaji Rauf Aregbesola; former Bayelsa State Governor, Chief Timipre Sylva; former Speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly, Senator Adeleke Olurunnimbe Mamora and former Ekiti State Governor, Chief Niyi Adebayo. The suspension of the Standing Rules, will, among others, allow the Senate, which does not sit on Mondays and Fridays to do so in this instance. A breakdown of the list shows that seven of the nominees are former governors and seven others former senators who either lost their re-election bids or did not run again. A further breakdown of the ministerial list by geopolitical zones, showed that the seven states in the North-west, where the president hails from and which gave him the largest bloc votes in the February presidential election, has nine nominees, the North-east, which has six states, has seven nominees, also, the six states in the North-central have a total of seven nominees. In addition, there are a total of seven nominees each on the ministerial list from the six states in the South-west and South-south while the five states in the South-east produced a total of six nominees. Briefing reporters on the ministerial list, yesterday in Abuja, the Chairman of the Senate Ad-hoc Committee on Media and Publicity, Senator Adedayo Adeyeye, stated that the annual vacation of the senators, initially billed to commence by Friday had now been postponed by one week “in the interest of the nation for the Senate to screen without any further delay the ministerial nominees sent to it by President Buhari.” “We have postponed the recess till next week, end of next week. We are suspending a lot of our rules. Plenary normally does not hold on Fridays, plenary will hold on Friday this week and Monday next week in order to hasten the process, we want to do a thorough job and we want Nigerians to know that we are doing a thorough job. It is going to be a lot of sacrifice on our path. “We are going to work in unusual hours, normally we sit from 10 to 2p.m., that will not apply during this confirmation hearing. We are going to sit till very late, virtually every day. On Friday, we will sit till we are tired. We will go on a brief recess and proceed until 10pm.We have given ourselves enough time; we will work in unusual hours,” he added.According to him, the Senate wants Nigerians to witness the screening process. “I want to seek your indulgence that some of the nominees may have stage fright, not that they are not brilliant. Please, try to understand a few of these issues,” he added.The Senate, according to him, is a complete departure from the past “because we won’t rush the screening, if we were to rush the process as it will not be thorough.” He affirmed the independence of the legislative arm, saying the Senate reserves the right to reject any nominee that falls below expectation during the screening.He said: “The Senate is an independent body; the constitution gives us the role to either confirm or reject any of the ministerial nominees.” Earlier, the president had forwarded the names of 11 former ministers who served during his first tenure as well as 32 other nominees to the Senate for confirmation as ministers.Buhari, in a letter addressed to Senate President Ahmad Lawan, and read at plenary yesterday, sought the approval of the Senate for the confirmation of the 43 ministerial nominees in line with Section 147 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). The 11 former ministers who served in the dissolved cabinet of the president from December 2015 to May 2019 and have been renominated include Dr. Chris Ngige (Labour), Adamu Adamu (Education), Ogbonnaya Onu (Science and Technology), Geoffrey Onyema (Foreign Affairs), Hadi Sarika (Aviation) and Lai Mohammed (Information).Others are Babatunde Fashola (Power, Works and Housing), Rotimi Amaechi (Transport), Abubakar Malami (Justice), Mohammed Bello (FCT) and Osagie Ehanire (Health). Apart from picking a nominee from each of the 36 states of the federation in line with constitutional provision, Buhari gave seven states namely Anambra, Bauchi, Edo, Kaduna, Kwara, Lagos and Kano one additional slot each to bring the total number to 43.After reading the presidential letter, Lawan had at plenary hinted that the screening of the ministerial nominees would commence today. He stated that the Senate would want to fast track the screening of the nominees while relegating to the background all other legislative duties effective from today.          