By Habibu Harisu Wamakko (Sokoto State) – Gov. Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State has assured members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) posted to the state of maximum security and improved welfare. Tambuwal stated this in Wamakko, Sokoto, on Monday at the closing ceremony of the 2019 Batch B, Stream 1 Orientation Exercise for the corps members. The governor who was represented by the Secretary to State Government, Alhaji Sa’idu Umar, urged them to be law-abiding, shun provocative dressing, associate freely and respect the culture and tradition of their host communities. He charged the corps members to continue to work for the unity of Nigeria, explore its potentials for growth and development, and utilise the skills they learnt in camp to set up viable ventures. The governor also advised them to promote tolerance and understanding among Nigerians and serve as change agents in addressing the nation’s problems and challenges. “The nation is faced with enormous challenges of development and meeting them needs collective efforts,’’ Tambuwal added. Also, the Chairman of the state NYSC Governing Board, Alhaji Abubakar Ladan, noted that the corps members had demonstrated exemplary conduct during the orientation exercise and expressed the hope that they would not relent in their endeavours. Ladan urged them to join forces with government in fighting corruption, drug abuse and other social vices in the country. He said that those who distinguished themselves during the service year would receive awards from the state government and Sultan of Sokoto, Dr Sa’ad Abubakar. Ladan however warned that there would be sanction against any corps member found wanting. The State NYSC Coordinator, Mr Philip Enaberue, said 95 per cent of the corps members had been posted to teach in schools in order to support the state government in its efforts to revamp the education sector. “Your Excellency Sir, the NYSC management in the state is mindful of the focus of your administration, which declared emergency in education sector. “The emphasis which you placed on education has necessitated the posting of about 95 per cent of the corps members. “They would be posted to schools located in all communities including the hinterlands,’’ he said. The coordinator urged the corps members to exhibit positive attitude in their places of primary of assignments. “There is no doubt in my mind that if you exhibit positive attitude to your employers, they will go to any length to make you comfortable throughout the service year,’’ Enaberue said. He also urged the corps members to contribute positively to the development of their host communities. “I urge you to move to host communities, settle down quickly and identify one or two things you feel is the need of the community, articulate and execute them,’’ he said. (NAN)