A Business Education student, Edafe Bawa-Dogo, who is a mother of two lovely children has emerged as Babcock University overall best graduating student with Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 4.97 out of the 62 first class in the 2018 graduates.Mother of 2 becomes Babcock University best graduating student with 4.97CGPA In an interview with the mother of two who surprised many to become Babcock University overall best graduating student, said that her achievement of the academic feat was made possible by God. Tracing her success to her husband, two daughters and classmates, she described the role of her mother who is a retired teacher as massive. She spoke with Weekend Woman, saying that the encouragement from her mother while on campus brought out the best in her. ‘’My retired mother was always calling to remind me of the need to read me my books despite my busy scheduled,” she said. On the choice of her course as Business Education graduate she said: ‘My mother’s love for teaching influenced also my passion for education course. She makes me love the teaching profession.” ‘As a working mother of two, I combined my studies with my work as school officer at the Department of Computer Science, Babcock University. After work, I had to come back home and assist my children in their home work and church activities every Saturday. So, it was important that I worked very hard.” Recapitulating her academic performance while in primary and secondary school , she said; “It was not as if I have always been at the top of my class ever since I started school. However, at a point, God turned everything around and I became a serious student. Speaking during convocation, the President/Vice Chancellor of Babcock University, Professor Ademola Tayo congratulated the best graduating student and other graduates. ‘The past few years have been challenging economic periods for us as a nation. ”However, we have remained focused on our core mission of providing the finest undergraduate and graduate education and maintaining a research endeavour to the best of our ability.” ‘Despite the challenges and economic drawbacks, we have worked in a very disciplined and prudent manner to achieve our goal. The results have been remarkable, leading to the smooth drive of our academic calendar, culminating today in both the graduation of our undergraduates and postgraduates”. Source