By Emma Elekwa, Onitsha Youth Leaders of Ethnic Nationalities in the Southern Nigeria have called for the arrest and prosecution of leadership of the Coalition of Northern Youths over inciting comment on the suspension of Ruga settlement. The group also called on the federal government to investigate the killing of Afenifere leader’s daughter, Mrs. Funke Olakunrin with a view to bringing the culprits to justice. In a six-point communiqué in Awka, the Anambra State capital on Saturday, after its meeting by 12 presidents, the group warned that the Southern youths have capacity within and outside the country to defend their people. The Presidents included: Amb. Arthur Obiora, Ohaneze Ndigbo youths, Comr. Eric Oluwole, Yoruba Youth Council, Atauko Brown, Supreme Council of Ibibio youths, Nze Egbechue Kingsley, Aro Youths Ethnic Kingdom, Eric Omare, Ijaw Youth Council, Ulap Okon, Coalition of Ethnic nationalities youth leaders of Nigeria and Festus Igherebuo, Urhobo Youth Council. Others include Innocent Ebhote, Esian Youth Council, Ovie Umuakpo, Isoko National Youth Assembly, Matthew Dighi, National Youth Council of Ogoni, Emmanuel Amadi, Etche Youth Federation and Chukwuma Okpalaezeukwu, Igala Cultural Development Association. The group expressed dismay over the porous and deteriorating security situation in the country, describing the proposed establishment of Ruga settlement as ill-motivated. The communiqué partly read, “We condemn vehemently the unguarded and provocative statement from the leadership of the Coalition of Northern Youths with respect to the temporary suspension of the RUGA settlement in the country. “We also reject outrightly Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Vigilante Group in Ondo State and other parts of the Southern Nigeria, which we consider as illegal and clandestine move by the Jihadist’ exponents to establish Fulani Emirates across the nation. “The meeting, therefore, calls on the Federal Government to immediately convoke a National Security Summit to address issues threatening the existence of our dear nation Nigeria.” (The Nation) 