Women groups numbering 150 have written to Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, protesting “the continued marginalization of women in leadership positions in the country” and requesting the Governor “to consider appointing 35% representation of women” in his cabinet. The open letter e-mailed to News Express on Tuesday was signed by Dr. Abiola Akiyode-Afolabi, Chairperson, Transition Monitoring Group (TMG), Co-Convener, More Women Campaign, Nigeria, and Executive Director, Women Advocates Research and Documentation Centre (WARDC). Entitled “Open Letter to Ogun State Governor for 35% Representation of Women in The Cabinet for 2019-2023 and Beyond”, the letter reads: “We are a group of concerned citizens of Ogun State working under the auspices of a campaign platform called ‘More Women’. An initiative of the Women Advocates Research and Documentation Center (WARDC), a national leading women group, with its roots in Ogun state, Nigeria. We represent diverse non-governmental organisations that work towards the advancement of women in Nigeria in all spheres of life and within the context of national and international frameworks that obligates Nigeria to promote gender equality and women’s empowerment. “We support more women in leadership in Ogun State and Nigeria as a prerequisite for sustainable democracy and development. “We are concerned by the continued marginalization of women in leadership positions in the country and hereby request your Excellency to consider appointing 35% representation of women in the cabinet that will lead your agenda in the state. We also urge you to consider other social groups including the youth and people with disabilities. “We believe that the appointment exercise as a critical tool to steer affairs of the state towards a desirable and sustainable future, such future can support the state towards the achievement of 2030 Global agenda. The state has always been the gate way and leads historically in progressive developments and we will not expect something less from this present government. We are aware that there are several eminently qualified female indigenes of the state for all the sectors and call on your esteemed self to consider these eminently qualified female citizens to position the state appropriately and support your agenda for a better state. “Taking this step, will not only position your government as a gender friendly party but it will go a long way in placing Ogun State in the comity of states in Nigeria as a leader committed to gender equality and women’s participation in power and decision making. It will set a precedent for other governments across the country and increase the gender rating of Nigeria. “We urge you to listen to the yearning of the people and support a pro people government that portrays representation that is above board and can support development. Take Notice Sir, that the Women Groups and concerned citizens will undertake a solidarity WALK to your office on Thursday, 1st of August 2019.” Source News Express