By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The names of Senator Abdullahi Adamu and Senator Danjuma Goje were not heard on Tuesday as senate announced its principal officers contrary to the news making rounds that the former is the preferred candidate of the All Progressives Congress for the position if Majority Leader while the latter would be compensated for having stepped down and teamed up with Senator Lawan to beat Senator Ali Ndume to emerge Senate President. Senator Lawan disclosed the names of the principal officers while reading correspondences from the national chairmen of All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshimhole and Uche Secondus respectively. According to the announcement, Senator Yahaya Abdullahi (APC, Kebbi State) emerged the Senate Majority Leader, the former deputy governor of Abia State, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe (PDP, Abia State) was named the Senate Minority Leader. Also, a former Abia State governor, Senator Orji Kalu, (APC, Abia State) became the Senate Majority Whip just as Senator Philip Aduda(PDP, FCT) was named as Senate Minority Whip. Accordingly, Senator Aliu Sabi Abdullahi (APC, Niger State ) is the Senate Deputy Majority Whip just as Senator Robert Ajayi Borofice (APC, Ondo State) became the Deputy Majority Leader of Senate. Also, Senator Emmanuel Bwacha (PDP, Taraba State) became the Deputy Minority Leader while Senator Sahabi Yau (PDP, Zamfara State) was named the Deputy Minority Whip of the Senate. Similarly, the name of Sahabi Yau who was announced in replacement to that of Senator Clifford Odia (PDP, Edo State), was another source of surprise. The newly appointed principal officers, who took their turn to address members, however, in their speeches called for peaceful cooperation among Senators. Senator Abdullahi, said: “I am humbled. Never in my life have I ever dreamt of coming this far. It’s a lifetime achievement. My own responsibility is to provide the kind of leadership that will unite the entire Senate. Once we come here, we are senators of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.“We will support the leadership of the National Assembly to ensure we deliver on our campaign promises to the people.” On his part, Senator Abaribe said: “I agree with the Senate majority leader that once we are here, we don’t see ourselves as party members. We see ourselves as statesmen here to solve the problems of Nigeria. “At anytime we step here, we have three duties. We have a duty to our constituents. Then a duty to Nigeria and thirdly, it’s a duty to God. If we can do that, I not sure there will be any problem we can’t resolve on this floor.”“From this side of the aisle, we will give you our cooperation. We expect the same cooperation from the other side of the aisle.” he concluded.