By Stanley Nwanosike Enugu – The Nigeria Prisons Service (NPS) Enugu State Command, has decorated 123 personnel, comprising  officers and rank-and-file. The Controller of Prisons, Enugu State Command, Mr Ndubuisi Ogbodo, while addressing the newly decorated officers in Enugu on Monday, urged them to re-double their commitment to duty. Ogbodo, who was represented by the Deputy Controller of Prisons, Mr Stanley Ogbonna, urged them to ensure transparency and honesty as they continue to serve the nation. He said that their elevation was based on hard work, diligence and efficiency in service delivery to members of the public. He urged them to shun all acts capable of tarnishing the good image of the service. “On behalf of the Controller-General of the Nigeria Prisons Service, Mr Ja’afaru Ahmed, I congratulate you on your promotion to higher rank and higher responsibility. “I must thank the C-G for this large heart and goodwill in seeing that personnel of different ranks are promoted. “Accept your promotion as an act of God; since promotion comes from God alone. However, the service wants you to re-double your efforts,’’ he said. Ogbodo assured that the command would continue to be exemplary in the discharge of its duty. In a remark, Brig.-Gen. Sani Bashir, from 82 Division of the Nigerian Army, congratulated the newly promoted personnel especially the officers among them. “You must keep the flag flying at all times and place your service to the nation above every other consideration,’’ Bashir said. Responding on behalf of the newly decorated personnel, Mr David Ozonachi, thanked the C-G and the Controller for making the promotion and decoration possible. Ozonachi, who was promoted from the rank of Assistant Controller of Prisons to Deputy Controller of Prisons, assured the C-G of their dedication and full commitment to achieving the mandate of the service. “To whom much is given, much is expected. We will not let down the confidence reposed on us through this promotion. “I will assure the entire NPS and our overall boss that we will continue to work hard and pray, so that the NPS will attain greater heights,’’ he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the NPS promoted 29 commissioned officers, 30 non-commissioned officers and 64 junior staff. (NAN)