By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has told the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Adams Oshiomhole, to shadow-boxing and face his pending corruption allegations. The party accused the chair of seeking a face-saving measure by embarking on what it described as shadow-boxing against the PDP. In a statement Tuesday by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party mocked Oshiomhole, saying the party chair is battling to save his political career over allegations of corruption and malfeasance in the handling of party affairs. It added that the APC chair was in no position to cast aspersions or pontificate to the PDP on its internal activities and relationship with its elected public officials. The statement said, “Instead of trying to launder his image by unnecessarily attacking the PDP, we advise Oshiomhole to redeem his name by submitting himself to the Department of State Services (DSS) and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to answer huge allegations of corruption as Edo state governor as well as alleged misconducts as APC Chairman”. The PDP challenged Oshiomhole to speak out on the allegations that he fled the country at the wake of his reported interrogation by the DSS in 2018 over accusations of corruption. “This is a leader who had accepted that his party and the government it formed are sanctuaries of corrupt persons, when he stated, at the APC campaign rally in Edo state last year, that once you join the APC, your sins are forgiven. “Moreover, instead of this fixation on the PDP, Oshiomhole already has his plate full with the crisis in his home state, Edo, where he is generally believed to be responsible for political tension by trying to force himself on the state governor, Governor Godwin Obaseki, as godfather. “Oshiomhole needs to concentrate on the crisis rocking his party as well as the Presidency where the members of the cabal are at daggers drawn over the sharing of positions as “booty” of a rigged election,” the PDP added. 