By Christian Ogbonna Yenagoa – The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), said it distributed seedlings, agro-chemicals and sprayers worth millions of Naira to farmers affected by the 2018 flood disaster in Bayelsa. Mr Eric Ebhodaghe, the Agency’s Team Leader in the state, told News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), in Yenagoa on Monday that no fewer than 3,000 farmers in Bayelsa benefitted from the scheme. Ebhodaghe, also the supervisor, National Food Security Council (NFSC) in South-South, said the beneficiaries were farmers who lost their farmlands to flooding that ravaged the eight local government areas of the state. “This intervention is in three phases. The first phase is the verification of affected farmers, the second phase is the distribution of seedlings. “The third stage is cultivation and support with the necessary agro-chemicals to ensure that they have a good yield. “The farmers are being supported based on their farm size and seedlings like cocoyam, sugarcane, banana, yam, maize, cassava, plantain sucker and vegetables as it applies to them. “This is in line with the directive of the National Food Security Council led by President Muhammadu Buhari to further ameliorate their plights. “I believe with these, they will have good yields in the 2019 farming season in line with the efforts to avoid food shortage in the country. “So far so good, we have done the distribution in seven out of the eight local government areas in the state and definitely, we will get to the remaining one LGA,” he said. On monitoring the usage of the seedlings, Ebhodaghe said that arrangements had been made in collaboration with the State Eemergency Management Agency (SEMA) to ensure that beneficiaries made good use of the items. “The extension workers in the programme are to monitor the usage of these inputs. “To checkmate flooding, we urge the residents in Bayelsa to avoid improper refuse disposal and erecting of houses on water channels, among others. “Some states are already on red alert including Bayelsa, Kogi, Anambra, Rivers, Delta by NIMET’s prediction on possible flooding, but we pray it will not happen,” he stated.