By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former
Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, Comrade Timi
Frank has said that President Muhammadu Buhari and his party, the All
Progressives Congress (APC) is celebrating a stolen mandate. This is also as he has
described the May 29 swearing in of the President Buhari as inauguration of a
totalitarian President. Frank in a statement made
available to newsmen on Wednesday in Abuja, said that majority of real voters
never gave their mandate to the APC’s presidential candidate during the last
election, adding that “until the Supreme Court decides the true winner between
Buhari and the Presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP),
Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the inauguration of Buhari for a second term in office
remains illegal.” According to the political
activist, May 29 would have been a day of joy but Nigerians are mourning
because of a government that has forced herself on them, “however we remain
hopeful that the judiciary would restore our stolen mandate.” While assessing the last four years of the APC’s
government under Buhari, Frank said: “most Nigerians who brought him to power
in 2015 are now regretting doing so in the first place. “Despite all the heavy
propaganda his government has embarked on, the promise to end insurgency is
still a mirage. Under your administration
not only that Boko Haram insurgents are still active, kidnapping and banditry
that were no threat have compounded the country’s woes. “The so-called
anti-corruption war of your government in the last four years only succeeded in
victimising Nigerians in the opposition. No official in this
government can boldly say what the recovered amounts are being utilized but
Nigerians know they are being re-looted. “On the economic front,
this administration is notorious for amassing loans. Unemployment is at record
breaking levels, while small and big businesses have collapsed without any
remedy even as corruption at the state level has been subsidized on several
occasions in the name of bailouts and and Paris Club refunds.” Frank who commiserated
with Nigerians over what he described as the “inauguration of a totalitarian
President” added that “as from today, May 29th, 2019, till a court of competent
jurisdiction decides the true winner of the last general election, Buhari is an
illegitimate President.” He urged Nigerians not to
lose hope, saying if the Next Level plan of the APC’s government is allowed to
stand, the country might have been damaged beyond recognition when Buhari
finishes. He also called on
religious leaders, traditional rulers and all patriots to continue to pray and
speak out against injustice in the society, assuring that through legal means,
Atiku Abubakar’s stolen mandate would be retrieved in due course.