By Jack Cuzza No. Despite the crimes of the colonial era, Africa’s present poverty has relatively little to do with this part of its past. Colonial rule was a pretty brief experience for most of Africa – a mere 70 years or so. Nor was the impact that great day-to-day: an African could easily spend their entire life under colonial rule and never once see a white man. Europeans actually did far more damage in the pre-colonial era, when the Atlantic slave trade fuelled centuries of warfare in West Africa (while the Arabs did the same in East Africa). And the country that was colonised the longest, South Africa, is also the richest and most powerful today – not what you’d expect if colonialism bred greater poverty. Africa is poor today for much the same reasons it was poor in the pre-colonial era – because of a political culture which colonialism did very little to change. Basically there is no loyalty to the state in most of Africa – nationhood is largely a fiction used to bolster the legitimacy of the self-serving elites that run (or claim to run) most African countries today. The nation state has simply never arisen in Africa in the way that it has in the rest of the world: instead, people are loyal to their family and their tribe. This absence of national feeling is present even among the politicians running most African countries, who feel no shame in looting their countries’ treasuries no matter how much it weakens the state they themselves run. Graft is so extreme that governments often barely function at all: basic infrastructure like railways is left to break down and disappear back into the jungle, with health and education provision even worse. Some governments even tolerate parts of their national territory slipping out of their control if there’s no loot to grab there (this is what led to the rise of Boko Haram in the impoverished north-east of Nigeria, far from the country’s oil wealth in the south). No government would stand for this in a country they felt a genuine sense of loyalty to – even if they lacked the strength to win they would still fight the rebels tooth and nail for control. What African politicians do tend to spend money on is their own particular tribe (while ignoring all others) – particularly around election time. Kenyans call these kickbacks ‘eating’. Not surprsingly the excluded tribes don’t like this situation very much and this fuels tribal conflict, further undermining national unity. All too often it eventually leads to large-scale violence, hence the endless list of African civil wars. Meanwhile at the individual level, strong family loyalties (and lots of children) mean that when someone does becomes wealthy the money is often shared out among a very large number of relatives. Everyone gets a little but it’s not really enough for anyone to buy a car, say, that could open up more economic opportunities for them in the future. This prevents the kind of virtuous circles beloved of capitalist theorists and helps to keep economic growth low. On top of that, stubbornly high birthrates ensure that even the less-corrupt countries are required to spread the benefits of growth thinly over a rapidly-expanding population. Africa is a continent of countries that are not so much dysfunctional as fictitious. They exist on the map but not in people’s minds. While it’s true that their borders were largely drawn by colonialists with little regard for existing tribal structures, any other border arrangement would have the same problem of non-existent nationalism, the same vacuum of legitimacy (unless they were very small countries where everyone belonged to a single tribe, like Swaziland). Until a genuine sense of nationalism evolves, African countries are likely to remain plagued by negligent governments, bad infrastructure, civil unrest, patchy rule of law and a generally bad business climate. This will keep investment low and Africans poor, with family structures further lessening the impact of what growth there is. On the plus side, this is something that Africans can change for themselves: even with unfair trade rules and predatory foreign corporations it is still in Africans’ power to become wealthy regardless – all they need to do is change their way of thinking. Whether it will happen anytime soon is another matter of course.