By Kingsley Okoye Abuja – The Senior Staff Association of Electricity and Allied Companies (SSAEAC), Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) chapter, FCT says  there  is no industrial crisis between it and management of TCN as indicated by the national body of SSAEAC. The Chairman of SSAEAC, TCN Chapter, Mr Abidemi Dairo, said this in an interview with newsmen on Wednesday in Abuja. Dairo was responding to a letter  by Trade Union Congress(TUC) and the national management of SSAEAC of a planned industrial action against  the management of TCN. Dairo, however, said recently, “we received a message from TUC and the President-General of SSAEAC through SSAEAC’s Secretary-General, that they are coming to declare industrial dispute in TCN. “It is unfortunate, we don’t have any condition to warrant industrial dispute in TCN, because  we  receive our salary as at when due. “Go to any TCN formation and find out, we get our salary before the 20th day of every month, recently we did promotion and most of us got the promotion. “And some of us that are yet to get, we  still put up an appeal, so that they  can get their promotion. “I don’t see any reason or any condition that will warrant industrial  dispute.’’ He said effort of the present management and staff of the company to reposition it had resulted to improved services in the electricity value chain. “ TCN  previously used  to be known as the weakest link in the  electricity  power chain, but  now it is one  of the  strongest  link due to the effort  of the  present  management of TCN. “I think we should aspire to move forward and this has been the collective effort of the staff, our members in the organisation. “For somebody to  now come from outside  to say he is coming to declare industrial dispute, we are not part of it.’’ He said the SSAEAC in TCN had written  to the law enforcement agencies to investigate the  purported planned industrial action by the national leadership of SSAEAC. “On this same issue, we have written to the Inspector-General of Police, (IGP), we submitted a document on March 14. “We have also involved  the  DSS headquarters to intimate them that these people are planning to come and cause trouble in TCN. “Sometime last year, they came and mobilised thugs to come and disrupt economic activities in TCN. “But it was stopped by well meaning Nigerians, who defeated them and now they are planning another strike action.’’ He said any industrial  action  against an organisation must be with the support of the internal union of the organisation. “But in this case, TCN SSAEAC is not  part of the planned industrial action. “We want to state categorically clear that anything that will disrupt the Nigerian system, anything that will lead to economic sabotage in Nigeria, we are not in support. “So we appeal to law enforcement agencies not to take side, they should do their investigation on the document we submitted to them.’’ Dairo uged TCN workers to maintain decorum and remain  committed to the discharge of their duties by avoiding the activities of detractors. “TCN  staff should remember, where we iwere a year ago and where we are now, we used to be the weakest link, but now we are one of the strongest in the power system now.’’ (NAN)