By Chiazo Ogbolu Lagos – Women’s Technology Empowerment Centre (W.TEC) says its technology camps are aimed at increasing girls’ involvement with Information and Communications Technology (ICT). Its Communications Officer, Mr Adeyemi Odutola, made this known in a statement o Thursday. According to him, W.TEC is accepting applications for the 2019 She
Creates and the Early Innovators, Technology Camps that will hold in
Lagos, Kwara, and Anambra states from July to September. He said that it was through these camps that the centre would focus on motivating girls to participate in ICT. “The She Creates Camp is a two-week technology programme, which
empowers girls to contribute meaningfully to the digital economy and
improve their economic opportunities. “The long-term goal of the camp is to increase the number of women
working with and using information technology productively for
professional and leadership activities. “Artificial Intelligence, Internet of things and many others will feature at the She Creates 2019. “The Early Innovators Camp is focused at harnessing the innate
curiosity of children aged 5 to 10 years by introducing them to
computing and science concepts through play and exploration over a
2-week camp,” he said. Odutola listed Sage Foundation, Oracle, Laureates College and,
Kenneth Dike Memorial eLibrary as the camp’s 2019 sponsors. While our
partners for the camps are the Lagos State Ministry of Education and
Kwara State Ministry of Education. He said that during the camp, the girls would participate in technology workshops and leadership activities. He added that evaluations of previous camps showed enhanced
leadership skills; creativity; problem-solving and communication
abilities in the girls as a result of attending the camp. “In 2019, W.TEC is hosting the following camps: She Creates Camp
(Lagos – Mainland) , from Aug. 18 – 31 (2-week residential camp) with a
fee of N70,000 per student (Covers tuition, feeding, boarding,
educational resources and excursions). “The technology workshops for this are: Electronics & Digital
Circuit Technology, Python Programming, Internet of Things, Blogging,
Software Design, Digital Film production. “ She Creates Camp (Lagos – Lekki), from July 29 – Aug. 9 (2-week
non-residential camp, 9am – 2.30pm), with a fee of N 50,000 per student
(Covers tuition, feeding, educational resources ) plus N10,000 for
pickups after 2.30pm. “She Creates Camp (Awka – Anambra State) from Aug. 26 – Sept 6
(2-week non-residential camp, 9am – 4pm) with a fee of N 5,000 per
student (Covers tuition, feeding, educational resources ). “She Creates Camp (Ilorin – Kwara State) from Aug. 26 – Sept 6
(2-week non-residential camp, 9am- 4pm) with a fee of N 15,000 per
student (Covers tuition, feeding, educational resources). “ The Early Innovators Camp (Lagos – Mainland) from Aug. 17 – 20
(2-week non-residential camp, 9am – 2.30pm) with a fee of N 10,000 per
child and between the ages of 5 – 10years. “Interested girls are urged to register by completing the online form
or contact camp@wtec.org.ng or call 0812.126.7721 for more
information,” he said. The W.TEC official said that the target audience for the ”She
Creates” programme, a girls-only tech camp, should be smart, curious,
and between 13 and 17 years of age. He said that the girls should also be interested in using computers and exploring digital technology.