By Victor Nwachukwu Owerri,  – Imo Chapter of the National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) has called on the state governor-elect, Mr Emeka Ihedioha, to carry the youth along when he is sworn-in. The Council made the call when a delegation comprised of its State
Executive Council (SEC) members paid a courtesy visit to the Director
General,  Ihedioha Campaign Council, Dr Vin Udokwu, in his office in
Owerri on Thursday. Led by the Council’s Chairman in Imo, Mr Humphrey Osuji, the
delegation felicitated with Ihedioha over his victory in the 2019 polls
and presented Udokwu with an award of honour as “Imo youth icon of
equity” in recognition of his role in carrying the youth along. Presenting the award, Osuji said that the youth are usually
associated with strength,  adventure, vision and impulsiveness and can
either build or destroy a society, depending on their state of national
orientation and corporate consciousness. According to him, the main causes of woes associated with the youth
range from poverty of the mind to bankruptcy of purposeful leadership. He charged the governor-elect to harness talents yet untapped in the
youth so as to distract them from vices, noting that the youth
constitute 70 per cent of the entire population of Nigeria and over 80
per cent of voting population. The Imo NYCN boss further stated that the Council was given a legal
recognition in 1990 under the Companies and Allied Matters Act, Part C
of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as the umbrella
body holding all youth organisations in the state. ”In the past, we have seen power hungry politicians take advantage of
the high unemployment rate to recruit and misdirect youths so as to
achieve their selfish agenda to the detriment of the masses. ”We, therefore, call on our governor-elect to ensure 50 per cent
affirmative action for Imo youths in political appointments and to
recognise the Imo chapter of NYCN by ensuring the release of our annual
subvention from the state government,” he said. In his response, Udokwu thanked the Council for their contributions
toward the election of Ihedioha as governor and for identifying with the
incoming administration. The medical doctor expressed grief over the death of some youths during the 2019 elections. He assured that the youth of Imo would heave a sigh of relief under
Ihedioha, as the campaign team had continued to work assiduously toward
the fulfillment of his campaign promises. ”Thank you for your support all through the elections and until now.
It is highly unfortunate that some misinformed youths lost their lives
in the process. ”I am delighted to inform you that the campaign team is still working
to ensure that all our campaign promises are fulfilled and everyone
including the youth will smile in the long run,” he said.