The Federal Government said on Friday it would soon shut down the Akanu Ibiam International Airport in Enugu for security reasons. Minister of State for Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika disclosed this during the sixth aviation stakeholders’ forum which is still ongoing as at the time of filing this report.  The Minister also said the government had contracted Julius Berger to renovate the premier Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA) at the project cost of N14bn. Daily Trust reports that the government has carried out series of inspection to Enugu where a new terminal has been built. But the runway is being patched on a daily basis as the facility is said to have outlived its lifespan. Sirika said the proximity of the airport to the market, which also has an abbatoir exposes the airport to regular bird strike, recalling that an Air Peace flight was recently hit by bird and the aircraft had to make an air return. “As you approach Enugu, there is a market which has an abbatoir which attracts birds. At the end of the runway you have free trade zone. The state government kept promising they would remove all these challenges. Enugu maybe closed down soon”, he said. “I can’t take the risk. That market must move two to three kilometers away. It will not harm the people. Ethiopian Airlines will stop going there. Also, the local airlines will stop. We have told the state government, ‘remove the trade zone, remove the market, the state radio mast that is directly on approach”, added. On the rehabilitation of the Lagos International Airport, he said, “The Lagos airport was built to handle N200,000 passengers but today Lagos airport is handling eight million people. So it must collapse. Julius Berger will help give it the new look it requires. “The airport generates most of the income, so it is only right we give it facelift it requires,” Sirika added. He said the new Lagos airport terminal would be completed before the end of the year, saying the airport would be shut in a way it would have little or no impact on flight operations. He disclosed that out of 157 aviation projects the administration initiated in the last three years, it has completed about 130 of such projects. Meanwhile, the Enugu State Government has taken steps to address the concerns raised by the Federal Government. The State Executive Council on Friday ordered the immediate closure of the Orie Emene Market near the airport. Briefing newsmen after the council’s meeting, the State Commissioner for Information, Mr. Ogbuagu Anikwe, disclosed that the council also closed the abattoir near the airport and equally ordered the immediate removal of all illegal structures encroaching on the airport land. Mr. Anikwe added that “the Chairman of Enugu East Local Government Area has been directed to effect the immediate closure of the market.” He explained that “the State Executive Council had on 12th October, 2018 approved funds for relocation of the state broadcast mast on the approach of the runway to Okpatu hill (Ugwu Rerenkwu) in Udi Local Government Area but the implementation of this project has been hampered by the disruptive activities of some youths in the community.” According to the Information commissioner, “Enugu State government hereby directs immediate cessation of all hostilities against the project as any further interference will attract the full wrath of the law given that the government has paid all the necessary compensation. “The traditional rulers of Okpatu communities and town union leadership are hereby called upon to ensure full compliance with the above directives.” •Source: Daily Trust, The Sun