By Tosin Kolade Abuja, – The Ministry of Water Resources says it is now ready to handover nine Centre Pivot Irrigation Systems to Sokoto Rima River Basin Authority for agriculture development. The benefiting states of Kebbi and Zamafara are to receive six and
three units, respectively to improve agricultural practice in line with
the Federal Government’s Economic Recovery and Growth Plan. The Director, Irrigation and Drainage with the ministry, Dr Elijah
Aderibigbe told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that this was also part
of activities to deliver agricultural transformation and promote food
security in the country. He said that irrigation practice was the mainstay of agriculture
development, noting that Nigeria could not rely solely on rain-fed
agriculture, if it would meet its policy thrust of economic development. He, however, added that other benefits of irrigated agriculture
included the value chain addition through marketing and transportation
in food production. “The contractor handling the project has given us notice to handover
all six units in Kebbi State, under the Sokoto Rima River Basin, and
three units in Zamfara, which makes them  nine units. “Even by next week, additional two will be ready, which will
significantly help our beneficiaries to use them for food production and
food security in the country.” He said that with the provision of funds from the National Resources
Development Fund and budgetary allocations, the project had been
completed and ready for handover to the beneficiary river basin. He said that with completion of projects, contractors were given
their certificates and paid, adding that some incurred debts by the
ministry had also been cleared. He said that with the security challenge in some states,
vandalisation of some irrigation infrastructure had occurred with some
persons carting away tyres, iron parts, among others. He called on benefiting states to take ownership of the projects and
ensure that security of water infrastructure was made a top priority. According to him, participatory irrigation concept will help to promote sustainability of projects. Aderibigbe urged the river basins to speedily build perimeter fences
to protect the infrastructure, urging state government and communities
to protect such systems. He said that the National Committee on Irrigation was working to
harmonise all action plans to reposition irrigation practice in the
country, saying this would also be a way to promote food security. “We are planning to hold a National Irrigation forum to brainstorm
with irrigation professionals to chart a way forward for irrigation
development in Nigeria.” He called for peace building to enable farmers cultivate and
contribute their quota to national development, saying with continued
insecurity, nothing would be achieved. The director expressed appreciation to the President Muhammadu Buhari
for repositioning the Water Resources sector, calling for a
reappointment of the Suleiman Adamu as the minister. “I am not a politician, but I can say that the minister has not shown
eye service, but has been very committed to repositioning the sector,
he has also put sustainability plans in place.” NAN reports that over the years, many different irrigation techniques
and methods have been developed to accommodate changing environments. Age-old surface irrigation still continues to be popular based on its
simplicity and cost effectiveness but as technologies are changing,
mechanised irrigation systems are becoming more and more appealing to
producers, hence the Center Pivot Irrigation System.