By Joy Akinsanya Abeokuta, – The Federal Government and International Fund for Agricultural Development assisted Value Chain Development Programme (IFAD-VCDP), on Friday said it had expanded its operation to three more local governments in Ogun. The three local government areas are: Odeda, Yewa South and Odogbolu
and bring to eight the number of local government areas benefiting from
the programme. The five local governments of Ijebu North East, Ijebu East, Yewa
North, Obafemi/Owode and Ifo had been benefiting from the scheme since
it took off in August 2014. Mr Samuel Adeogun, the State Programme Coordinator, (SPC) represented
by Mr David Onigbinde of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
department, Ogun State Management Unit of the project, said the addition
of three local governments was to eradicate poverty and encourage food
production. Adeogun, at the one-day sensitisation organised for farmers in
Odogbolu Local Government, said the additional local governments would
benefit from the over $100 million project under its additional finance
programme expected to last for about two years. “The programme is targeted at fighting poverty, strengthening surplus
food provision and providing income for small holder rural farmers who
engaged in rice and cassava value chain. “Beneficiaries of this programme must form a registered group of
minimum of 10 and maximum of 25 persons who are engaged in rice and
cassava value chain of not more than 25 hectres “The beneficiaries of the programme will pay 50 per cent for various
farm inputs such as improved varieties of rice and cassava stem
cuttings, fertilisers, herbicides among others while the Value Chain
Development Programme (VCDP) will pay the rest,’’ he said.. He also said that for beneficiaries who would need farm equipment and
machines such as Tillers, Threshers, Sprayers, milling machine, Cassava
grater, among others, the VCDP would pay 70 per cent while the farmers
would pay 30 per cent. “This programme is already yielding good result for us in Ogun state,
we have built a garri processing factory for farmers at Baara, in
Obafemi Owode Local Government. “We have also assisted farmers that are into Fufu processing at Ifo,
we have built bridge for some farmers at Yewa North and this has helped a
lot to ease their farming enterprise. “This project is a well thought out tripartite collaborative efforts
of the state government, the Federal Government and IFAD that must be
embraced to further fight poverty and increase our food production,’’ he
said. Mr Olawale Shittu, the Chairman of Odogbolu Local Government,
represented by Mr Abdulateef Adenuga, the Vice Chairman of the Council,
lauded government for investing so much in policies and programmes aimed
at boosting agricultural production. Shittu said the deliberate policies of Federal Government such as
VCDP has led to increased rice production and decrease in billions of
naira spent on its importation. He commended the state government for extending the opportunity to
the local government, and urged famers to embrace the programme,
promising to ensure success of the project in the local government.