By Nkiru Ifeajuna Lagos – A hip-hop musician, Michael Solanke, popularly known as `Miclous’ on Friday urged youths in the country to discover their talents and use them for their own benefits. “Everybody has at least one talent, so youths should look inwards and know what works for them and develop it,” he said. Miclous told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos that most of “our talents are largely undiscovered. “Youths commonly value entertainment, music, dancing, acting, performing arts and sports as talents, while some do not. “Most musicians are not talented; hence they will always copy any hit song from a talented singer. They came into music to make money,’’ he said. He said that if someone were to be repeating things others had done in the past; it means the one copying lacked passion or talent for such. He advised those copying others to discover what would work for them to become successful. He advised youths to explore what they love doing instead of everyone wanting to become a musician only to end up copying  others. “They need to create purposeful statements with their lives and follow what their mind is telling them. “They need to be disciplined, be confident, listen and learn and be responsible,’’ he said. Miclous said that to help youths discover their talents, government and the society should provide platforms and opportunities. “Government has to provide various vocational centres, extra-curricular activities, structure youth activities which can provide opportunities that will spark talents. “Government must also recognise and praise youths for their efforts. “Youths also must be prayerful and seek divine directions before embarking on any project,’’ he said. He equally advised youths to always ask advice from their elders when they are confused or not sure of what they should do in life. “Ask people with experience who will be willing to give you honest assessments about what they think you can use your talents to achieve,’’ he said. He advised youths not to always wait for government to do everything for them.