By Cecilia Ologunagba Abuja – Sen. Udoma Udo Udoma, Minister of Budget and National Planning, has urged board members of National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) to work with the management to promote sustainable and cost-efficient programmes of the bureau. Udoma made the call at the inauguration of the Governing Board of NBS on Thursday in Abuja. “You are required to work with the management of the NBS to, inter
alia, determine its mission and long-term strategy roles and
responsibilities and develop strategies to promote sustainable and
cost-efficient activities of the Bureau. “Full details of your duties and responsibilities are prescribed in
the enabling Act of the NBS which will be handed over to you at the end
of the inauguration. “I urge you to become familiar with it,’’ he said. According to him, the role of the board as provided in their
respective establishment Acts is quite distinct from the day-to-day
administration of agencies under the leadership of Chief Executives. He said strict adherence to statutory provisions by both parties
would enhance harmonious relationship devoid of bickering and other
unhealthy occurrences. “You are aware the NBS is the government agency charged with the
responsibility for data generation and dissemination in Nigeria. “The agency facilitates sectoral development in updating and
monitoring Nigeria’s socio-economic indicators and advises the
government as well as relevant stakeholders, including the public and
private sectors on our social rankings. “Considering the important roles that the NBS plays in nation
building, the need for a supportive Governing Board cannot be
over-emphasised,’’ he said. The minister, however, congratulated the members and wished them successful tenure. Earlier, the Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Mr Ernest Umakhihe
congratulated the appointees, saying “the appointment was based on the
recognition of your good track record.’’ The permanent secretary urged the members to be focused and be
selfless in the discharge of their duties, asking them to bring their
wealth of experiences to bear. “Your appointment is a call to the service of your fatherland,’’ he said. Umakhihe said the inauguration had been long awaited because the
Boards of two other agencies being supervised by the Ministry had been
inaugurated a year ago, leaving out that of the NBS. The Boards of the Centre for Management Development (CMD) and the
Nigerian Institute for Social and Economic Research (NISER), were
inaugurated on Thursday, March 8, 2018. The NBS Board, which required Senate confirmation, was postponed to await confirmation by the Senate which was done on April 11. The newly inaugurated 15-member Governing Board of the NBS comprises
six political appointees and nine Institutional members under the
Chairmanship of Dr Kabiru Nakaura and the Statistician-General, Dr Yemi
Kale as Secretary and Member. Responding on behalf of the board, the Chairman, Nakaura assured the
minister that they would cooperate with the management of the bureau. “NBS is important to the socio economic development of the country
and as an agency charged with data generation and dissemination, we will
support the management of the bureau with our experience and skills,’’
he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Sen. Ita Enang, the
Senior Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on National
Assembly Matters attended the ceremony.