By Emmanuel Acha May – No fewer than 300 students of Institute of Ecumenical Education, Thinkers Corner, Enugu are to get International certification on Information Communications Technology (ICT), the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports. The programme, which is powered by Track IT Ltd. a Microsoft authorised partner in Nigeria, will train students of the institution in ICT courses. Mr Albert Agha, Project Director of the organisation, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu on Thursday while speaking on the organisation’s contributions in improving the proficiency of teachers. He said that the project was meant to inculcate in the prospective teachers of the 21st century, proficiency skills in the use of technology to improve learning outcome. He said that colleges of education needed more of ICT in education programme as it focused on enhancing teachers’ performance in the use of technology in the classroom. The project director said that the students would at the end of the certification programme become proficient in digital literacy, creativity skills, critical thinking as well as improve on their leadership skills. Agha said that the training would involve PowerPoint live sessions with professionals across the world. He said that advancement in technology had exerted pressure on teaching and learning, adding that educators were expected to move along with changing times with a view to improving learning outcome. Agha commended the management of the institution for the bold step taken to inculcate in their students such skills that would make them to flourish after graduation. “In education, it has always been about chalk and board all the time. “These days, teachers and prospective teachers are encouraged to be proficient in the use of technology in teaching in order to effectively engage their students. “When you bring in videos, audios and live sessions on Skype, it will help the students to understand better, thereby, improving the performance of educators,” he said. Agha said that the organisation was implementing the same programme in about 100 institutions across the country. He said that they had several centres in Abuja, Lagos, Rivers, Anambra and Abia states. He however, said that only two institutions were implementing the Microsoft in Education programme in Enugu which includes Godfrey Okoye University Secondary School. Agha said that the programme was introduced in Nigeria five years ago, adding that the certification would last for one academic session. “Once the students and prospective teachers undergo this training, they can never be the same again. ”The certification can enable them work anywhere in the world,” Agha said.