By Randy McDonald South Africa, most unlike Canada or Australia, did not have an indigenous population that could be conveniently devastated by pandemic disease and then confined to marginal territories on the periphery. South Africa, before first the Dutch then the British, had a population of hundreds of thousands of people, equipped with Iron Age technologies and possessing sophisticated social structures and plugged into global trade networks. South Africa’s indigenous populations were never as vulnerable as the more isolated and less technologically sophisticated peoples of Canada and Australia, and so, absent an intentional British policy of genocide, they could never be made into a minority. The consequences of this were huge. The colonialism practiced in Canada and Australia, where the indigenous populations that survived could be safely excluded and an almost entirely new civilization created on their lands, was simply not possible. In my own city of Toronto, practically the only remnants of pre-British settlement are streets like Davenport Road built on old indigenous trails and the Iroquoian burial mounds hidden underneath the greenery of west-end Magwood Park. (Toronto has a large First Nations population, but this is composed of recent migrants; the Mississaugas of the New Credit First Nationwere deported from early British York.) Toronto’s treatment of its indigenous populations is hardly unique in Canada, and hardly without parallels in Australia. What happened to the Eora of Sydney when the First Fleet came calling, after all? South Africa seems generally to have been spared such near-complete erasure of its pre-colonial past. British colonialism as practiced in South Africa needed to co-opt indigenous populations, needed to try to make use of them. The ways in which Africans were used, under apartheid, as labourers on farms and in mines has clear precedents in British rule. This could be enormously lucrative for Britain and for the white colonists who benefited from British rule, but this model of colonial economics necessarily limited the potential for British (and other white) immigration. How could there be a niche for immigrant miners from Europe, say, when Africans could do much the same job at a lower price? It’s worth noting that, even in the depths of apartheid, while South African whites might have strongly encouraged white immigration to try to offset non-white numbers, and while the apartheid regime did its best to gerrymander non-whites into as many theoretically sovereign homelands outside of South Africa proper as possible, there was little thought given to try to reduce the numbers of non-whites actually in South Africa. Ethnic cleansing was not an option: a system of white minority dominance over a non-white population reduced to the status of dependent workers worked well enough, thanks. Source: Quora