By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The ‘Not Too Young To Run Movement’ is billed to host Nigeria’s largest gathering of young elected legislators in Nigeria on Monday in Abuja. The gathering with the theme: Leadership, Power and Politics which comes up on May 7 – 8, 2019 in Abuja is designed to inspire, empower and expose newly elected young legislators in the 2019 elections to resources and tools required for excellent public leadership and quality representation. Executive Director, YIAGA AFRICA and Convener, Not Too Young To Run movement, Samson Itodo who disclosed this in a statement, said the event presents an opportunity for the newly elected young lawmakers to reflect on Nigeria’s 20 years of democracy with a view to designing a new democratic and leadership model that promotes institutional reforms, economic development and reduces inequality. According to the statement, “over 300 young leaders elected into various seats in the National and State Houses of Assemblies are expected to participate in the conference. The event will celebrate the direct beneficiaries of the ‘Not Too Young To Run Act’ signed into law on May 31st, 2018 by President Muhammadu Buhari.” “The young lawmakers will have an opportunity to interact and learn from the experiences of an array of highly respected and seasoned speakers headlining the conference.” The keynote speech will be delivered by Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara, Speaker, House of Representatives. Other speakers include Senator Abdul-Aziz Nyako; Hon. Nnenna Ukeje; Hon. Tony Nwulu; Hon. Raphael Igbokwe (Chair, Young Parliamentarians Forum); Hon. Luke Onofiok, (Speaker, Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly); Hon. Desmond Elliot; Eugenia Abu; Udo Jude Ilo; Oladayo Olaide; Catriona Liang (British High Commissioner to Nigeria); W. Stuart Symington, (US Ambassador to Nigeria) amongst others. Unarguably, Nigeria needs a new leadership paradigm that puts the people first. This leadership model must be driven by the philosophy of results and impact as well as accountability and transparency.  Through ‘The Convergence’, the ‘Not Too Young To Run Movement’ and YIAGA AFRICA are mobilizing a new breed of visionary public leaders to sanitize electoral politics, obtain political power through the ballot and provide accountable, responsive and innovative leadership. The Convergence 2.0 is the second in the series of conferences hosted by the movement. The maiden edition held in December 2018 to inspire and equip youth candidates running in the 2019 elections with relevant skills and knowledge for effective campaigns. Over 400 youth candidates were supported to participate at the conference. The Convergence is supported by the United Kingdom Agency for International Development (UKAID).  