By Franciose Marie What makes you possibly think that the Dutch, a group of Whites, could have preceded the Bantu speaking people in South Africa ? A “doctored” verstion of the history of migrations in the African continent. Whites were latecomers in world history as the earliest humans were brown skinned. Whites were even latecomers in the whole of Europe. They were preceded by the first Europeans. It is a fact. Google search the face of the first European. They were not Whites. Europeans’ ancestors were brown skinned for thousands of years. It is a fact. Google search the complete and oldest African genome. There were no Whites in Africa anywhere until 3 000 years ago. Bantu speaking populations migrated to South Africa LONG before the first settlement of Dutch in the mid 17th century. Bantu speaking populations displaced some groups of San, the earliest inhabitants but exchanged genes and cultures with other groups of San. Bantu dialects from South Africa have clicks like those used by the San. The Dutch East India Company established a trading post in Cape Town under the command of Jan van Riebeeck in 1652, European workers who settled at the Cape became known as the Free Burghers and gradually established farms in the Dutch Cape Colony. San | Bushmen | Kalahari, South Africa… Thus, when the white settlers arrived in the mid 17th century the whole country was inhabited by 3 different groups – the hunter-gatherers (San), the pastoralists (Khoikhoi) and the farmers (BaNtu). At first, the San co-existed peacefully with the Nguni (a sub-language group of the BaNtu) speakers (the Zulu, Xhosa, Swazi and Ndebele) who intermarried with the San and incorporated some of the distinctive and characteristic ‘clicks’ of the San language into their own languages. Contact with Nguni and Sotho-Tswana farmers is depicted in the San rock art. The artists started including representations of cattle and sheep as well as of people with shields and spears, in their paintings. Source: Quora