By Dimitris Almyrantis What decline are you talking about? Looking at the big picture, Ethiopia has gone from strength to strength. If you have some mental impression of imperial identity in her past, that is more the product of successful image-making on their part than their being the rump state of some yet-mightier civilization now gone. For reference,Ethiopia aka Abyssinia (Greek and Arabic-derived names, respectively, meaning “land of coal-faced people” and “land of the Habasha people” – “Habasha” being the name of the main Ethiopic ethnic group in the middle ages) was, historically, more associated with the Middle East than Africa proper – meaning, it was a prestigious place with a state tradition preceding the middle ages, associated with Prester John, Solomon, the Queen of Sheba and the Holy Land, not part of the Dark/Unknown Continent – and so her experience more closely aligned with that of Iran, Egypt or Turkey than of the Sudan (the pre-modern term for most of sub-Saharan Africa). This meant that, like Egypt – which built the first large colonial empire in the 1800s, preceding the European scramble for Africa – Ethiopia was an active player in the colonial game. Compare the red piece of land – the domains of several feuding Christian kings considered “Abyssinia” in the 18th century – with the green (modern Ethiopia) region, the 19th century conquests of a unified imperial state adopting an increasingly Westernized apparatus (1900 Ethiopia still “looked” medieval, but was in relative terms a leap ahead). Much like the Saudis on the other side of the Red Sea, the ‘Solomonic dynasty’ benefited from the colonial period with an unprecedented, in regional terms, state-building effort: As for a brief history of peaks and declines of Ethiopia, look no further: Axum and the neighbouring kingdoms in Yemen; it is likely that the original Semitic people of Axum either migrated, or were heavily influenced by, Yemeni colonies. Below: Somewhat-speculative 12th century map, credit to Jake Mapping. “Makuria” is the Christian kingdom of Nubia, “Ethiopia” are the Zagwe lands, and Adal was one of the early Somali Moslem trading city-states of the Horn of Africa. At the time, most lands south of the Ethiopian/Falasha kingdoms were pagan, and would remain so for most of the middle ages. Oromo settlement; Map of main feudal kingdoms at the close of the Zemene Mesafint, after the fading of Yejju rule; generally, the coastal kingdoms had the advantage of regulating the European rifle trade. The Red Sea coast was under nominal Turkish rule with hereditary janissary garrisons, with the Ottomans appointing (nominal) “governors of Abyssinia” at these coastal forts since the 16th century: 1850s-1920s – Reunification & Empire: It was the son of an impoverished lord from Showa, one of the autonomous provincial kingdoms, who over two decades of war reunified Ethiopia and placed himself on the throne as king-of-kings Tewodros II, citing his own blood ties to Solomon. Ironically, his life ended in suicide as the British (on whom he ordinarily relied for the trade of Western arms and cannon) invaded Ethiopia in 1868 over his imprisonment of Protestant missionaries, a war that has been called “the most expensive affair of honour in history.” Still, despite pressure from all sides – the Turkish-Albanian Egyptian empire and later Mahdist Imamate to the north, the Italians on the Red Sea Coast, etc. – the reunified Ethiopia remained and, with continued tacit European permission, conquered most of the Horn of Africa, often under the same pretences as the British (“let the Ethiopians build railways for the Somalis”, etc.). Like the later deal with the Saudis, the Ethiopians assumed control of the vast, hard to control interior which they controlled with the old school techniques of warfare, while the Europeans took over the coasts and Somali trading centres. Maps showing the campaigns of Menelik II (r. 1889–1913, pictured above) – the first shows his status as negus (king) of Showa under the king-of-kings, although by the end of his reign the old feudal nobility had been de-fanged, and Ethiopia unified under a relatively modern administration, with the title negus confined to the Emperor alone. Religious map of Ethiopia with its main holy sites; of these, the monastery of Debre Libanos gained a reputation in the 20th century for the wholesale massacre of 30,000 monks and laypeople by the Italians in 1937. Every Ethiopian king since Tewodros II understood that their military capacity against the Western empires was nil, hence Ethiopia’s quick adaption to the international system and championing of the League of Nations as a means to promote norms protecting small states. Despite the brief Italian occupation (an occupation only possible by British permission and infrastructure at Suez, not by Italian strength alone), Ethiopia succeeded in never becoming seen as Terra Nullius, gaining the Italian colonies after WWII. Source: Quora