By Shuaib Sadiq Kaduna – Kaduna State Chairman, Rice Farmers Association (RIFAN), Muhammadu Nungu said the association lost 15 members in attacks by gunmen and kidnappers between 2016 and 2018 cropping seasons in the state. Nungu told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Kaduna on Wednesday
that many rice farmers abandoned their crops during the 2018 season due
to incessant kidnapping and attacks by gunmen in different parts of the
state. “As I speak to you, we have lost no fewer than 15 members between
2016 and 2018 farming seasons to gunmen and kidnappers who will freely
attack farmers while working on their farms. “Many others sustained injuries during similar attacks in different
local government areas of the state where rice is being produced, “
Nungu said. He said that most farmers were afraid to go to their farms because of
fear of being attacked or kidnapped by gunmen, a situation which he
said had reduced the quantity of rice hitherto produced in the state. According to him, rice farmers faced two serious challenges; one is
that of security in some local governments where rice is produced. “Birnin Gwari, parts of Giwa, Kajuru, Kachia, Sanga, parts of Kauru
and Jema’a Local Governments were most hit by the menace of attacks and
kidnapping. “The other challenge is flood which is natural, but had ended up
destroying most of our crops in some parts of the state. This had
reduced rice production in the state by more than half. “You know that more than 13,000 of our members are benefiting from
the Anchor Borrowers Programme, so with these challenges, paying back
the loan became another challenge. “ But so far, we are able to pay back more than 40 per cent of the loan, even with the challenges at hand, “he said. He appealed to governments at all levels to address the issue of
kidnapping and gunmen attacks, for farmers to fully resume production. Malam Dahiru Abdullahi, the Information Officer at the state Ministry
of Agriculture and Forestry, told NAN that the state government was on
top of the situation with various measures taken to ensure farmers’
safety while working on their farms. Abdullahi, however, advised farmers to work in groups, avoid working
in isolated farms and report any suspicious movements they noticed
around their farms.