Abuja (Sundiata Post) – President Muhammadu Buhari has condoled with the family of Gomwalk, government and people of Plateau State on the death of outstanding scholar and community leader, Professor Umaru Gomwalk. A statement issued by Garba Shehu Senior Special Assistant to the President (Media & Publicity) on Thursday observed that he was, at various times a teacher, Vice Chancellor and Chairman, Presidential Advisory Council and the Governing Council of the Nigerian National Merit Award. The President said the nation has lost an illustrious teacher and scholar who distinguished himself by delivering results in responsibilities assigned to him. The statement quoted him as saying:  “Professor Gomwalk was so dedicated and hardworking that he got tested with administering the University of Nigeria, Nsukka under circumstances that were difficult and unusual. In carrying out this assignment, he demonstrated the same dedication and passion for service while ensuring justice to all. He did not disappoint the nation.” President Buhari said he was deeply touched by the death of this “dedicated and creative public servant” and urged younger Nigerians to “emulate such rare and hardworking citizen for the progress of our country.’’ He prayed God Almighty to grant eternal rest to the departed and comfort family, friends and well-wishers who mourn this illustrious son of Nigeria. A separate statement also issued by Shehu said President Buhari mourned the loss of iconic journalist, Kola Animasaun, who died at the age of 79. On behalf of the Federal Government, the President offered deepest condolences to the Animasaun family and friends, including the management of Vanguard Media Limited, publishers of Vanguard Newspapers, where the late veteran newsman spent many years as a formidable columnist. The President also commiserated with the Nigerian Union of Journalists and the Nigerian Guild of Editors on the demise of one of the country’s most trusted and respected columnists. Buhari expressed the belief that Alhaji Animasaun will be long remembered and honoured for the rich and elucidating write-ups in the ”Voice of Reason” column he left behind; the many literary works he authored as well as the array of media professionals he trained and mentored on the ethics of the noble pen profession. As a distinguished member of the Fourth Estate of the Realm who was largely recognised and admired by colleagues as a consummate professional, the President paid tribute to the late veteran’s contributions to the development of journalism in the country. He prayed Almighty Allah to grant eternal rest to the soul of the departed Animasaun and comfort his family and all who mourned.