By Douglas Okoro Abakaliki – Chief Austine Edeze, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ebonyi has commended the Federal Government for establishment of Technology Incubation Centre (TIC) in the state. Edeze told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in an interview in
Abakaliki on Friday that the Centre located in Indiogbu-Ndieze community
in Izzi Local Government Area would boost entrepreneurship and
fast-track development in the area. Edeze, chairman of the Governing Council of the Federal Polytechnic,
Ado-Ekiti, in Ekiti state lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for his
commitment to infrastructure development in Nigeria. He also applauded Buhari for his economic diversification policy and
for adopting science and technology approach to drive the economy. He said that the TIC would provide the platform for entrepreneurs and
those who want to engage in small and medium enterprises to showcase
their skills. The chairman added that the National Board for Technology Incubation
would provide the appropriate technology to enable the centre produce
items of interest and needs of the people. He explained that the centre would play an important role in
scientific research, economic, industrial and social development of the
state. Edeze, also former chairman of Ebonyi State Universal Basic Education
Board (EBSUBEB), commended Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, Minister of Science and
Technology for locating the Centre in his community. “The technology incubation Centre, a FG project located at
Indiogbu-Ndieze community in Izzi is a landmark project attracted to
Ebonyi by Onu, and we commend the Federal Government and Mr President
for siting the Centre in Izzi land. “The Centre when completed and fully operational, will provide
knowledge-driven jobs for teeming unemployed youths, enhance rapid
growth in entrepreneurship and spur those involved in small and medium
scale businesses,’’ Edeze said. He urged the minister to use his good office to ensure the timely
completion of the project for the betterment of the area and the state. “The minister and his ministry officials were at the project site few
days ago for a facility visit where they were received by jubilant
members of the community. “The visit afforded them the opportunity to inspect and assess the progress of work on the site. “The project fund is captured in the 2019 budget, I am therefore,
appealing to the minister to use his good position to ensure that work
is completed early enough and the Centre inaugurated for use,’’ he
added.