By Olawunmi Ashafa Lagos – Ecobank Nigeria says it plans to capture more Nigerians into the banking net as part of efforts to boost financial inclusion through its Digital Campus campaign to higher institutions in the country. The bank said on Thursday in Lagos that its digital platform called “EcobankPay” enabled  students, teachers, other workers and businesses to transfer and receive funds easily. It also said the digital campus campaign ensured convenient and stress-free digital payment through the EcobankPay. According to the bank, EcobankPay is accompanied by Xpress pay point which facilities seamless transactions. “The platform is a lifestyle digital payment and collection service of Ecobank Nigeria,” the bank said in a statement. On why the bank decided to embark on the campus campaign, Ecobank Nigeria’s Head, Consumer Banking, Mrs Ayodele Osolake, said it was convinced the campaign would boost the bank’s efforts on financial inclusion. Osolake said: “The last edition of this campaign has warmed us more to the students, lecturers and other workers on the campuses visited, as they are now able to do banking just with their phones. “This has eased the entire banking process for them, whether they are opening accounts, sending and receiving money, paying school fees or withdrawing cash without cards through the Ecobank Xpress cash. “Parents and guardians are now able to transfer money to their children’s Ecobank accounts, which they can withdraw without a debit card at any Ecobank ATM (using Xpress Cash) or Xpress Point. “We feel it will be a disservice not to reach other campuses not visited during the first edition,” she said. She said that the bank had gone to showcase its various digital products to an increasing audience which was a perfect match. “They will find it much easier and simpler to transact remotely, thus meeting up with their financial and lifestyle needs, without having to walk into a bank branch. “We are committed to visiting all institutions of higher learning in Nigeria; all stakeholders within these systems will benefit from our pervasive digital banking services. “This edition is special as we plan to make all the campuses visited EcobankPay zones as all shop owners within the campuses will be encouraged to adopt the payment solution,” Osolake said. She also said that during the activation, the bank would set up free WiFi centres, tagged the “Xpress Corner’’, which would give the students free internet access and also afford them the chance to win exciting prizes. “We were highly impressed with the turnout of students during the last edition, and they in turn were so happy to find out about our products and services, they were keen to open Ecobank Accounts. “We are a youth-friendly bank and must arm our youth with a key ingredient for success in life which is financial know-how. “Our activation seeks to empower young people by offering them convenient, affordable and accessible financial services anytime, anywhere from their mobile, which is their primary mode of communication,”  she added. According to the bank, the Ecobank campus activation train is already at the Obafemi Awolowo University Ile-Ife and will subsequently be at 12 other campuses. These include University of Benin, Tai Solarin University in Ogun, Federal University of Technology, Minna, Ahmadu Bello University and Federal College of Education both in Zaria, University of Ibadan, and the Bayero University in Kano among other institutions across the country. (NAN)