ABUJA – The Nigerian Maritime Administration and safety Agency (NIMASA) has reaffirmed its commitment in rendering assistance to victims of flood and other natural disasters living in different camps spread across the six geopolitical zones in the country. The Director-General of NIMASA, Dr Dakuku Peterside made this known in Kano while presenting food and other relief materials to the Kano State Government. Dakuku, who was represented by the Deputy Director and Head of Financial Services, Mrs Olamide Odusanya, presented the food items and other materials to Kano State Government on behalf of the DG for onward distribution to flood victims and internally displaced persons in the state. “This is part of the nation-wide donation of diverse forms of relief materials to people displaced as a result of the 2018 flood disaster that submerged some parts of the State and some other states across the country, this is a continuation of our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives which has taken place in some States and is still on-going. It is important for Kano state to be a beneficiary of the kind gesture of the agency owing to the fact that Kano state was also one of the states affected by natural disasters in 2018”, the DG said. Presenting the materials to the Kano State Executive Secretary of the state Emergency Management Agency, Alhaji Ali Bashir Nikkel, the DG noted that the Agency would vigorously pursue the improvement of welfare of Nigerians and urged the State Government to ensure the items gets to the victims while urging the beneficiaries of the items to use them judiciously, so that the desired goal would be achieved. While receiving the materials on behalf of Kano State Government, Alhaji Nikkel, commended the efforts of the NIMASA and acknowledged the importance and timeliness of the gesture. He said the State government is doing its best within its powers to ensure their welfare and security. “The State Government is ever grateful by this kind gesture and would not be forgotten in a hurry and called on other government agencies and corporate organisations to emulate the footsteps of NIMASA by coming to the aid of the state government. We call on well-meaning Nigerians also and corporate institutions to emulate NIMASA. We assure that the items donated would be judiciously distributed to the affected persons with the aim of alleviating their suffering”, the Director emphasised. Materials donated to the Kano State Government  include the following, Rice, Corn, Mattresses, Sugar, salt, Dettol, Beans, Noodles, Soap/ Detergents, sanitary pad, dippers, mats, blankets, mosquito nets Dairy foods, palm/vegetable oil, Grinding Machines, pumping and sewing machines amongst others. It is worthy of note that the Federal Government has consistently encouraged interested philanthropists and non-governmental organisations to partner with government in order to adequately cater for the needs of Nigerians who are affected by one form of disaster or another. It is in line with this that NIMASA is carrying out the CSR activities across the six geo political zones in the country.