The last may not have been heard about the alleged romance between Daniella Okeke and Apostle Johnson Suleman as claimed by Stephanie Otobo. Suleman, Daniella, and Otobo Nigerian actress, Daniella Okeke who was enmeshed in a s-x scandal with Apostle Johnson Suleman has finally opened up on allegations that she slept with the man of God. Recall that she kept her cool all through the drama when Stephanie Otobo alleged at a press conference in March 2017, that during one of her intimate times with the Apostle Suleman, he allegedly told her that one Daniella Okeke, an actress, was one of his ex-girlfriends who he had threesomes with. At the press conference, she said that Apostle Suleman doesn’t eat much and that he loves s-x a lot.  “He can’t really eat. I noticed that about him. Most of the times we spent together, we had s*x. I refused to have threesome with him because I am not a lesbian and I don’t like women touching me. He told me he had threesome with all his past girlfriends. I was the only one that is very rude, that can’t do that with him”. Otobo claimed. Asked if he mentioned names of his past girlfriends, she said “I don’t know if I want to involve anybody right now. He told me his ex-girlfriend, Daniella Okeke, some actress girl”. Reacting, Daniella in a post she shared and deleted on her Instagram page asked Stephanie to come out and clear her name from the scandal. While dragging Otobo, the Nollywood actress didn’t spare Ghanaian actress, Moesha Boduong, whom she claimed she has a lot of evidences against. Threatening Otobo, Daniella wrote:  “You bitch, I don’t know who you are, but you came to call my name out of nowhere?! All of a sudden, you disappeared. Afterwards, you changed your name. No way, you have to tell the world the truth, Miss Otobo. I have kept quiet for too long.God will punish you wherever you are. I woke up on social media like everyone else on that day when you called my name on the internet. The way you called my name, better go and uncall it or else, the next 24 hours won’t be funny.” On Moesha, she added: “They told you not to post ur location abi? Don’t worry I ve it all I will open it soon!!! With evidence so don’t even be foolish @moeshaboduong Abi …..I ve ur watz app chart with ur numbers.” Source:http://Tori.ng