By Chibuike
Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former Minister of Aviation, Femi-Fani-Kayode
has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for the establishment of June 12th
as the real Democracy Day in Nigeria, a feat his boss, former President
Olusegun Obasanjo and other presidents of People’s Democratic Party extraction
had no courage to achieve while holding sway for 16 years as the ruling party. Fani-Kayode who knocked Obasanjo and former president
Goodluck Jonathan when he took to his twitter handle @realFFK and tweeted thus: “I remain an ardent critic of the @MBuhari admin. but there is one thing
that I shall always commend them for: the establishment of June 12th as the
real Democracy Day. Sadly not one @OfficialPDPNig
govt, including the one I served from 2003 till 2007, had the courage to do
that. Recall that Femi Fani-Kayode is not just a vocal critic
of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led All Progressives Congress since
assumption of power in May 29, 2015, he has raised his voice against every
social ills regardless of who is involved at the risk of his life and detriment
of his personal interests. Sundiata
Post recalls that President Muhammadu Buhari had
in June 2018 declared that the Democracy Day would henceforth hold on June 12
of every year. The President made the declaration as the Federal
Government honoured the acclaimed winner of the 1993 presidential election, the
late Chief Moshood Abiola, with a posthumous conferment of the highest national
award, Grand Commander of the Federal Republic, on him. Buhari had also conferred on Abiola’s running mate in the
election, Alhaji Babagana Kingibe and foremost human rights lawyer, the late
Chief Gani Fawehinmi, the Grand Commander of the Niger award, which is the
second highest national honour. FFK’s commendation came
after the National Assembly on Thursday passed the amendment to the National
Holiday Act to move Nigeria’s Democracy Day from May 29 to June 12. Recall that the Senate at the plenary on Thursday passed
the amendment in concurrence with the House of Representatives which approved
the new date earlier in December 2018. The passage followed the
adoption of a report by the Majority Leader, Senator Ahmad Lawan, for the
senate to concur with the House. The three clauses of the amendment bill were passed by the Committee of the Whole
when the Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, who presided over the
session, put them to voice vote. The
legislation is now billed for transmission to President Muhammadu Buhari for
assent.