What is answered in other answer is only half truth. I have no connection to Canada, i do not have any job offer. I am nominated from Nova Scotia and I am about to get my PR shortly. Connection or job offer is required in British Columbia, Alberta, Manitoba, Newfoundland. New Brunswick also need connection or job offer but they provide a small window of opportunity for those who do not have above support. They hold information sessions and job fairs all over the world. If u manage to attend an information session, you will be eligible to apply for this pnp. Checkout livinginnb website for more information. Nova Scotia has several streams. Nova Scotia category B. I got nomination from this stream. You do not need job offer or connection to the province. Condition is your NOC must be in their demand list and you must have active express entry profile. They open 3 to 4 times a year. Last time they opened was in November 2018 and i applied at that time and got nomination in January 2019. They will open again very soon. Labor market priorities stream. You need to have active express entry profile. Thats it. They will notify if your NOC is picked up for the draw. They had 2 draws so far since the opening of this strream. 315 child educators were picked in August 2018 draw in fhe first ever draw. 300 Financial auditors/ accountants picked in second draw in January 2019 draw. You cant do much here. Have your EE profile ready and if luck favors you, you will b invited. There are other streams as well such as Atlantic immigration pilot, express entry category A etc but all of them need job offers or some kind of connection, NS Experience, NS study experience etc. Saskatchewan Another province to target if you do not have any job offer or connection. Condition again is your NOC must be in demand. They have 2 options to apply without connection or job offer. Express entry stream where you need express entry profile to apply. Other one is occupation in demand stream. You do not need EE profile or 6666 in IELTS or job offer or connection to apply. You need clb 4 in IELTS and your NOC must be in demand to apply. They have a points calculation system where you need minimum 60 points to be eligible to apply. Their both programs remains open all the time. Anyone has NOC in demand and eligible to apply, can apply anytime by creating expression of interest profile. They hold regular draws and based on your score, you will be invited to apply. Ontario: Another big PNP to target without job offer or connection. They depend on your CRS score. This is the only PNP where your CRS really matters. You need to have CRS as close as federal draw like 439, 440, 441 and above. If you have such great score, you will be notified of interest in your EE profile. Oh yes, having EE profile is mandatory to be eligible for Ontario. If you know French, Ontario will be an easy province to get nomination. They have many other streams also but all of them need job offers or Ontario study requirements/job offers/Ontario experience. Prince Edward island: If you have EE profile, go and register in PEI immigration website any time but their first preference is for job offers or connections. Quebec: I dont recommend this. Many of you may not have heard about Morden pnp. It is part of Manitoba actually. Check that as well. They do nott need job offer or connection. 8000 population and no jobs. Good luck if you want to try. Sorry if there are typing mistakes. Mobile typed. Good luck all. By Shakir Ahmed, Quora.