By Chibuike
Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Emir of Anka and
Chairman of Zamfara state council of Chief, has said President Muhammadu Buhari
ought to have sacked the Minister of Defence, Mansur Dan-Ali. According to The Cable, Emir Ahmad made the remark in response to
the allegation of the minister that some monarchs were conspiring with bandits. He reportedly described
the minister’s allegation as serious, saying Dan-Ali, who hails from Birnin
Magaji local government area of Zamfara, ought to have relocated to his local
government as part of efforts to tackle banditry. “It is very unfortunate
for the defence minister to accuse us of aiding banditry. If it were in another
country, the minister would have been fired because it is a very serious
allegation,” he said. “He said it was not only
the traditional rulers in Zamfara that were aiding the bandits but even those
in other parts of the north. “But we kept quiet
because he is our own. Go to his local government area and see what is
happening. So, as a defence minister, he should have relocated there.” He commended the federal
government for deploying troops in the state to combat banditry. “I have already
explained that I have an able officer deployed in my domain. The only hindrance
is that the troops deployed here are very few in number and have no required
equipment to fight the bandits,” he said. “Nevertheless, the leader
of the team acts promptly and very fast whenever there is a problem.” Ahmad also appealed to
the federal government to act “as quickly as possible by coming to our rescue
because if nothing is urgently done, there is going to be human tragedy in Zamfara.” “These bandits will one
day come to the major towns to attack people if they are not effectively
controlled,” he said. “With the number of the
bandits and their sophisticated weapons, I think they can attack any local
government headquarters. So, we are appealing for deployment of more soldiers. “Because if you have
money in Nigeria, you can get anything you want. So these bandits are very
rich. “For example, if they
abduct a person, they will collect up to N5m ransom or even N10m and the money
will be paid in a maximum of two weeks. So by the time they are collecting N5m
from one person, others are also waiting to pay for the release of their
brothers.”