By Edeki IgafeWarri. -. The Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Delta, Mr Jones Erue, has urged the Cyril Ogodo-led faction of the party in the state to join hands with him in rebuilding the party. Erue made the plea at a press briefing on Sunday in Warri, while reacting to the judgment of the Court of Appeal sitting in Benin City. The Appeal of Court had on Friday, in a unanimous judgment delivered by Justice Mohammed Shaibu, held that the Federal High Court in Asaba lacked the jurisdiction to entertain the suit because it was an intra-party issue. The appellate court had confirmed Erue as the authentic APC chairman in the state. The Federal High Court had on March 18 declared the Ogodo-led faction as the elected state executives of the party, a decision that prompted the Erue-led faction to seek legal redress at the appellate court. Erue said the appellate court judgment was a victory for the people, noting that it would ensure return of normalcy into the party. He added that verdict would enable the APC in Delta to forge ahead for a healthy political party to perform its primary assignment of winning elections. “This press briefing is acting as an anchor of hope to beckon on those who have the interest of the party to come together after the judgment had confirmed me as the authentic APC chairman in Delta. “I am passionately appealing to those who were in court with me to forget the past now that the leadership of the party has been confirmed by the Appeal Court. “We are saying that there is no victor, there is no vanquish; it is a victory for all the party members. “I am stretching my hands of fellowship to all who were in court with me to come; this is time to rebuild; rebuilding is a necessity that takes a group of people forward,” he said. Erue cautioned the social medium experts not to insult any political leader, adding that this was the right time to use it to redefined the party. “We should leave the old culture of using the social media to insult those that means so much for the party. “It is only unity that can take us to the promised land,” he said. On plan by the Ogodo-led faction to challenge the Appeal Court judgment at the Supreme Court, Erue said they should not waste their resources on things that would further divide the party. “The money spent to seek legal redress without looking at the internal mechanism of the party could have been used in developing our party. “Everybody has right to seek legal redress, but there is always an end to litigation; so, what we are asking is put an end to litigation and move the party forward. “If Supreme Court reaffirms me as the chairman, we will still come to a roundtable and find a political solution to our problem. “So, my passionate appeal to those threatening to go to the Supreme Court is that we should make good use of our time and resources. We should use them for the progress of the party, rather than wasting them on those things that will not bring good result to us as a party,” Erue said.