By Jacinta Nwachukwu Abuja – His Royal Majesty, Patrick Ndidem, Oqua Agbo, of Calabar Municipalities, has commended the Federal Government for embarking on critical projects through the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs. Ndidem made the commendation in a statement issued by Mr Stephen Kilebi, Deputy Director, Press and Public Relations’ of the Ministry, on Saturday in Abuja. According to the front-line Paramount Ruler in Cross River State, the projects in the region will continue to bring succour to the people of the Niger Delta region. Ndidem, at the commissioning ceremony of Atimbo-Akpabuyo road in Calabar, Cross River State, said that federal government has linked Calabar to Bakassi with a good road network. “This has helped farmers to move their produce easily to Calabar for economic prosperity,”he said. The Paramount Ruler stressed that the rehabilitation of Atimbo-Akpabuyo road is one of the many projects completed by the ministry in Cross River and other states in the region. He also expressed appreciation to the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Dr Usani Usani, saying that he has done what is expected of a good bureaucrat. He also thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for the opportunity given to their son, Usani to help his people. In his remarks, the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Usani said the rehabilitation of Atimbo-Akpabuyo road was necessitated by the plight of the people who stayed long hours to move their goods from Bakassi to Calabar in the past. He added that the policy of the Buhari led administration is to ensure that no project is abandoned. The minister said that as many projects are being commissioned across the region, more are being given attention through contract award in other to ameliorate the sufferings of the people of the region. “The federal government alone cannot meet all the needs of the people, the states and Local Governments should complement the efforts by constructing internal roads in various communities in the region. “The 6.55Km Atimbo-Akpabuyo road Sections 1 and 2, link Calabar to Bakassi LGA of Cross River and it is considered very key for the advancement of agriculture in the area,” the minister reiterated. Similarly, the minister also commissioned a Cottage Hospital at Assiga Community in Yakurr LGA of Cross River. While commissioning the hospital, Usani said that siting the project in Assiga is aimed at reducing the suffering of the community dwellers and other neighbouring communities in need of medical attention. The minister added that the ministry is making necessary arrangements for the federal ministry of health to ensure the smooth running and proper deployment of medical personnel to the health centre. Elder Ogban Usang, on behalf of the leadership of the community, expressed appreciation to the federal government for witnessing the commissioning of the health centre. “This health centre is a relief and will serve the teeming population of not only Assiga Community, but the entire Yakurr local government and beyond. “We thank the federal government and Usani for remembering the people in this part of the country, by putting this project in place,” he said. Earlier, the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Mr Aliyu Bisalla, represented by the Director, Community Development and Education in the Ministry, Mrs Lauren Braide lauded the stakeholders for supporting government in executing the project timely. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that the minister is on a tour of inaugurating completed projects of the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs across the nine states in the region.(NAN)