ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – The Management of the National Assembly has set stringent conditions for the accreditation of journalists that will cover the Ninth Assembly.The National Assembly released the stringent conditions less than one week after the Clerk of National Assembly, Sani Omolori, was grilled by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) over non-payment of legislative aides’ allowances.It was gathered that the anti-graft agency seized the International Passport of the National Assembly Clerk at the end of the interrogation.The Management of the National Assembly in a letter dated May 15, addressed to the Chairmen of both the Senate and House of Representatives Press Corps, and signed by the Director of Information of the National Assembly, Emmanuel Jerry Rawlings, said the new guidelines would take effect from June 11, when the ninth National Assembly would be inaugurated.According to the letter, the management categorised accreditation into permanent and temporary. For permanent accreditation, the new guidelines provide that there must “evidence of certificate of incorporation of the media organisation and tax clearance for two years.”Below is the content of the letter in full:NATIONAL ASSEMBLY NEW GUIDELINES FOR THE ACCREDITATION OF MEDIA ORGANISATIONS, JOURNALISTS/ CORRESPONDENTS COVERING THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY 1.0 Number of journalists/correspondents to be accredited for prints, electronic and online media for Senate and House of Representatives respectively. 1.1 Television – 1 Reporter and 1 Cameraman 1.2 Radio 1 Reporter 1.3 Independent Producers – 1 Reporter and 1 Cameramen 1.4 Online Media 1 Reporter and 1 Photographer CLASSIFICATION OF ACCREDITATION 2.1 Permanent Accreditation 2.2 Temporary Accreditation 2.3 Foreign/lnternational Media Houses 2.4 Freelance 3.0 REQUIREMENT FOR PERMANENT ACCREDITATION OF JOURNALISTS/CORRESPONDENTS FOR PRINT, ELECTRONIC AND ONLINE MEDIA ORGANISATIONS 3.1 Evidence of certificate of incorporation of the media organisation. 3.2 Evidence of membership of professional bodies for media organisation. 3.3 Proof of membership of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) with registration number. 3.4 Code of certification from the National Library for the media organisation. 3.5 Functional Bureau in Abuja (Staff Strength not less than 5 Editorial staff) and daily circulation of 40,000 copies for the print media with evidence to support the claimed circulation figure.3.6 Media Houses must be publishing daily and on weekend (Applicable to Online Media). 3.7 Re-certification form must be signed and endorsed by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Media organization Bureau Chief, City Editor as the case may be. 3.8 The Media organisation concerned must have experience of covering proceedings of the National Assembly for at least two (2) years before applying for permanent accreditation. 3.9 All media organisations will submit a copy of its income tax return for the last two years. 3.10 All online media must have at least 5,000 viewership per day, the site must have been in operation for 5 years and provide satisfactory evidence to this effect with clippings of the news utilised (especially parliamentary news). 3.11 Only television stations with national coverage and specific independent producers with current running programme on the National Assembly will be allowed access into the Chambers on a permanent basis (All the production crew will be accredited as entity). 3.12 All correspondents must attach photocopy of letter of appointment of the media organisation on whose behalf request has been received for grant of accreditation. 3.13 All freelance journalist seeking permanent accreditation must show evidence of not less than 5 years coverage of the National Assembly proceedings/full editorial focus and publication on parliamentary reportage. 4.0 It is only Journalists and correspondence whose media organisations meet the above requirements for Permanent accreditation that will be entitled to carry National Assembly Identity Card/Membership of the respective Press Corps 5.0 All other media organisation who do not meet the above requirement will be captured under the Temporary accreditation status and they will not be entitled to carry National Assembly Identity Card/Membership of the Press Corps of the Senate and House of Representatives. 6.0 All Temporary accredited media houses, journalists/correspondents shall be allowed permit into the National Assembly for specific coverage not exceeding one (1) week in the first instance and not more than twice in a month. 7.0 All foreign/international media houses seeking accreditation shall abide by all the Diplomatic Protocols established by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for foreign media organisations, the Code of Ethics for Nigerian Journalists and security clearance before accreditation will be considered upon the recommendation from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 8.0 All permanently accredited journalists/correspondents shall submit recertification letter from the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of their media organisation on a sessional basis failure to which accreditation shall be withdrawn forthwith.9.0 All accredited media organisation will be considered as a single entity in the issuance of passes irrespective of their membership of Senate and House of Representatives Press Corps. 10.0 This new accreditation guidelines shall come into effect from June 11, 2019.ReplyReply AllForwardEdit as new