 By Emmanuel Ifeanyi, Aba Following his discovery of the much-talked Medicinal Synthetic Aluminum-Magnesium Silicate (MSAMS), a Professor of Veterinary Medicine and Clinical Biology at the Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike, Abia State, Maduike Ezeibe has been invited by a leading American Science Journal to its editorial board of Scitech Central. Ezeibe, professor of Veterinary Medicine and Clinical Biology had in February 2017 announced that he had found cure for HIV/AIDS. Although the professor was accused of breaching a process necessary for announcing such a sensitive discovery by the Nigerian authorities, American Science Journal lauded Ezeibe for the quality of his research on the dreaded virus. Specifically, Dr. Kane Hudson, Editorial Assistant, International Journals, Scitech Central Inc., USA, in an invitation letter to Ezeibe dated 6th May, 2019 said the organisation appreciated the quality of his research. Besides, the American research organisation requested to publish Ezeibe’s research on HIV/AIDS’ drug which he patented in Nigeria under the name Medicinal Synthetic Aluminum-Magnesium Silicate (MSAMS). The letter which said the organisation was about to appoint Editorial Board members for the international journal asked Ezeibe to forward his Curriculum Vitae, short biography, photo, research interests and other details. It reads: “Warm greetings from the whole team of “Journal of Microbiology and Microbial Infections. “At the outset, we acknowledge and really appreciate your work and quality of research in the field of Microbiology and Microbial Infections. “We have gone through your recent article on “Medicinal Synthetic Aluminum-Magnesium Silicate {Al4 (SiO4)3 + 3Mg2SiO4 2Al2 Mg3 (SiO4)3} which normalizes immunity and terminates HIV-infections. “Our editorial board suggested to us to invite you to write a similar research/ review/ case report or any new article to be published in our journal. “I would like to invite you to contribute a paper for publication in our upcoming issue of the Journal of Microbiology and Microbial Infections. “Research/ Review/ Short Communication/Case study/ commentary etc are welcome for possible publication in this issue. “If you have any manuscript ready, we request you to support our Journal by submitting the manuscript as soon as possible or I would appreciate receiving your convenient date of submission.” Ezeibe’s research work on HIV / AIDS medicine which scientists said had convincingly proved to be a cure for the disease had been approved by Nigeria’s Ministry of Health. Reacting, Ezeibe said that the acknowledgement of his research work on HIV/AIDS and the production of a drug that cured the disease was a proof that Nigeria had found a cure for HIV/AIDS. (New Telegraph)