By Ismaila Chafe Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday in Abuja inaugurated members of the governing board of the North East Development Commission (NEDC). Buhari inaugurated the board members shortly before the commencement of the meeting of the Federal Executive Council. He told the members to commence the
process of resettlement and rehabilitation of Internally Displaced
Persons to their original homes or their new communities to bring social
cohesion in the northeast. According to him, the inauguration of the commission is in fulfillment of the promise he made to the people of the northeast. Buhari said that the gesture was in
appreciation of the massive electoral support he received from the zone
in 2015 and 2019 that encouraged him to inaugurate the board. He told the board to shift focus
from humanitarian assistance as soon as possible in all relevant areas
to developmental and infrastructural projects, including reconstruction
of roads, houses, educational institutions and business premises
destroyed by Boko Haram. The president also urged the board
members to work out strategies to key into the African Development
Bank’s Special Agro-Industrial Processing Zones initiative. He said that the board should also
explore other programmes and initiatives, championed by Nigeria’s
development partners, local and international to further bring
socio-economic development to the zone. Buhari disclosed that N10 billion
had been earmarked in the 2019 budget for the smooth take-off of the
commission as well as the rebuilding of the zone. Urging the members to make judicious
use of the fund, the president mandated the commission to conduct a
comprehensive survey on the magnitude of damage caused by the
insurgency. The Senate had in April, confirmed
the appointments of retired Maj.-Gen. Paul Tarfa and Mohammed Alkali as
Chairman and Managing Director/Chief Executive of the NEDC respectively,
alongside nine other members. Members of the board include Musa
Yashi, Executive Director Humanitarian Affairs; Muhammed Jawa, Executive
Director Administration and Finance; Omar Mohammed, Executive Director
Operations. Others are David Kente, member
representing the North East Zone; Asmau Mohammed, member representing
North West Zone and Benjamin Adanyi, member representing North Central
Zone. Also on the board are Olawale Oshun,
member representing South West Zone; Dr T. Ekechi, member representing
the South East and Obasuke McDonald, member representing South South.