By Florence Onuegbu Lagos – The Association of Telecommunication Companies of Nigeria (ATCON) says it will address the issue of formulation of policy and regulation for Over The Top (OTT) services in the country. The Executive Secretary, ATCON, Mr Ajibola Olude, said on Friday in Lagos, that the issue would be tackled at the Association’s 5th edition of Telecom Executives and Regulators Forum. ”There is a saying that ‘change is inevitable’. The truth is that our industry is changing on daily basis, or we can say that the industry is being disrupted by new technological innovations. ”For our members to  remain players in the industry, new business models must be evolved, but regulation and policies also need to be reviewed, fine-tuned and strengthened, so that all and sundry can remain in business,” Olude said in a statement. He said that ATCON believed that the telecom and ICT sector in Nigeria was built on continuous strategic engagements amongst all players. According to him, the projected growth can only be realised if these engagements continue,  hence, the reason for the planned forum. He said that ATCON was providing the platform for the purpose of accelerating and harnessing the changes and growth that were taking place in the industry. Olude said that the forum was to ensure the growth of the industry for its members who had made huge investments in the Nigerian telecom and ICT sector. ”The forum is set to discuss and proffer lasting solutions to the topical industry issues of Formulation of Policy and Regulation for OTTs: challenges and prospects. ”It will discuss funding Telecoms Investment in Nigeria: How would the deficit in the Nigerian telecom infrastructure be financed? “Moreso, the forum will talk on the Eradication of the influx of cloned and fake phones and other telecoms devices in Nigeria: The role of NCC, Nigerian Custom, SON, and other Relevant Government Agencies. ”Stakeholders will also discuss the Regulation and Policies on Cloud Computing and Cybersecurity threats in Nigeria,” he said. (NAN)