By Segun Giwa Akure – The Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) on Thursday pledged to support the Ondo Government in its efforts to  eradicate Lassa fever. Mr Okejoto Gochua, Director of Education, Health and Social Services
of the commission, made the pledge during a courtesy call on Gov.
Oluwarotimi Akeredolu in Akure. According to Gochua, items to be donated as support include two ambulances, Hilux van, and Lassa fever protective kits. He said that the commission would, through its consultants, sensitise
the populace to the prevention, causes, and dangers of the disease. “It is the wish of NDDC to support the government and people of Ondo
and Edo states with the donation of Lassa Fever protective kits,
ambulances, Hilux vans and by conducting sensitisation and advocacy
programmes against this deadly disease. “This support aims to complement the state government’s efforts in
the fight against the lassa virus to prevent further spread of the
disease,” he said. In his remarks, Akeredolu,  who was represented by his deputy,
Agboola Ajayi, praised the management of NDDC for its intervention
programmes in the state. Akeredolu pledged the state government’s willingness to work closely
with the commission in the fight against lassa fever in the state. The governor, who noted that the vaccine against the disease was
unavailable, called on the public and health givers in particular, to
take precautionary measures always while providing care to the people
infected with the lassa fever virus. He said that the presence of the chairmen of the local governments
caretaker committees at the occasion, attested to the determination of
the state government to take the fight against lassa fever to the
grassroots. “I can assure you that our chairmen here will go back to their
respective councils and get prepared for the consultants that will move
in with them. “They will work closely with them and anything they need, they should
be able to provide especially in the area of security, conducive
environment for them to operate and carry out their sensitisation
without molestation of any kind,” he said. Also speaking with newsmen, the Caretaker Chairman of Irele Local
Government Area, Mr Gbadebo Odimayo, who spoke on behalf of the council
bosses, expressed the readiness of the local government areas to
collaborate with the state government and NDDC to tackle the lassa fever
scourge.