JOHANNESBURG/LONDON – Advisers to Congo Republic’s government have warned it that there is a “major risk” the International Monetary Fund (IMF) will reject its bid for a long-sought bailout, according to a letter obtained by Reuters. A participant stands near a logo of IMF at the International Monetary Fund – World Bank Annual Meeting 2018 in Nusa Dua, Bali, Indonesia, October 12, 2018. REUTERS/Johannes P. Christo Negotiations
for an IMF programme have dragged on since 2017, with the IMF’s
executive board demanding the central African oil producer ensure the
sustainability of its debt, most of which is owed to China and oil
traders. At the end of its most recent mission to Congo this month, an IMF team said it was finally ready to support a three-year credit facility. But any programme would first need to be approved by the Fund’s board. “The advisers to the republic wish
to make you aware of the major risk of the programme’s rejection by the
IMF’s board,” said the letter addressed to Congolese Prime Minister
Clement Mouamba and dated May 15. Congo hired French financial
advisers Lazard and more recently Parnasse, a firm employing former IMF
Managing Director Dominique Stauss-Kahn, to assist it in the
negotiations with the Fund. The letter was signed by
Strauss-Kahn and Matthieu Pigasse, head of Lazard France. A source close
to the matter confirmed its authenticity. Lazard declined to
comment on the letter. Attempts to contact Strauss-Kahn were
unsuccessful. Congo’s government spokesman and an official in the prime
minister’s office in Brazzaville did not respond to requests for
comment. An IMF spokesperson rejected the advisers’ position that
the programme, which would also likely unlock financing from the World
Bank and African Development Bank, was in doubt. “This
information does not represent the views of the IMF. The IMF team
continues to be in discussions with the authorities regarding the next
steps needed to be able to present this agreement to the IMF Executive
Board for discussion.”  Congo’s
economy suffered from a sharp drop in oil prices in 2014, causing debt
levels to balloon to 118 percent of GDP in 2017. For over a
year, efforts to restructure debt with China – Congo’s leading bilateral
creditor – and oil traders including Glencore and Trafigura [TRAFGF.UL]
made little headway. However, Congo reached an agreement last month to restructure a portion of its debt to China. And the Bloomberg news agency reported that it had also reached a deal on its debt to Trafigura. The letter said the IMF technical team had expressed concern with regard to the real effort made by the Chinese in the deal. “For
the technical team, it’s a question of proving to the board members
that China has agreed to a real restructuring of its loans and not
simply a technical reconfiguration,” it stated. Congo’s senate ratified the agreement with Export-Import Bank of China on Monday. [nL5N22W5GZ] According
to the Finance Ministry, Congo’s debt to China stood at nearly 1.48
trillion CFA francs ($2.54 billion) at the end of March. Under
terms of the deal, repayment of 944 billion CFA francs owed for eight
infrastructure projects will be extended an additional 15 years. Congo,
however, must pay off a third of that amount by the end of 2021. Lazard and Parnasse also criticised the deal with Trafigura, writing that it did not meet the conditions set out by the IMF. “The
formalisation of such an agreement in the coming weeks would send a bad
signal…to the board members about Congo’s real willingness to stick
to its commitment to re-establish the sustainability of the public
debt,” the advisers wrote. Advertisement Anti-graft
groups have long criticised the opacity of Congo’s oil sector and loan
agreements with oil traders and called on the IMF to use its position to
foster transparency. “Congo needs to publicly disclose the
existence and terms of all its oil-backed loans before the IMF
countenances any further financial support,” said Natasha White, an oil
researcher for campaign group Global Witness. ($1 = 583.2500 CFA francs)