A youth based human Right and good governance Advocacy Group, Youth Advocates For Peace Justice And Empowerment Network (YAPJEN), on Wednesday 22nd May 2019 offered scholarships to five Undergraduates of Nnamdi Azikiwe University Awka.* Amb. Timothy Nwachukwu The Executive Director of Youth Advocates For Peace Justice And Empowerment Network (YAPJEN) who attracted the scholarship through the support of Comr. Peter Nwosu SSA to the Governor on Petroleum and Union Matters, made the cash Presentation of the Scholarship award at the Law Students Senate Legislative Day and Award ceremony which held at the faculty of law Nnamdi Azikiwe University Awka. The names of the Beneficiaries from the faculty of law Unizik are 
Odinakachukwu Okoroafor 300 level
Ezuma Promise 300 level
Miss Ozoude Chinelo 300 level
Izuchukwu Benedict Chidobem 300 level
Miss Okoroafor Priscilla Chinenye 200 level The epoch making event which witnessed an award Presentation to some academic giants in the faculty attracted including A senior Advocate of Nigeria cum professor of Law, Prof. Offornze
Amucheazi, Prof. Meshack Umenweke, Dean Faculty of Law,
Prof. Ibe Lecturer, Barr. Obinna Mbanugo all from the faculty of law Nnamdi Azikiwe University Awka Amongst others Special guests. Speaking at the event the renowned Professor of Law, Prof. Offornze Amucheazi urged the Students to strive for excellence in whatever endeavour they found themselves as the legal profession offers it’s practitioners uncommon opportunity to excel in any field of human endeavour. Prof. Umenweke, the Dean, Faculty of Law and the chief Host who was honoured with The Great Motivator of Nigerian Students Award commended the Organisers of the event for putting up such uncommon event for the benefit of the students, he reminded the students that their primary aim is to excel in their academic pursuits, he encouraged the students to work hard and graduate with good grades and also advised them to eschew examination malpractices as it’s consequences are better imagined than experienced. Barr. Obinna Mbanugo, the deputy staff adviser of the law student Association stated that his love and passion for Students is unrivaled and hence his decision to identify with the Lawsa Senate in the ground breaking event. The event which witnessed a Legislative debate organised by the Lawsa Senate saw a student, Nzeakor Nonso emerging the winner. The highest point of the occasion was the scholarship Presentation to five indigent Students which was facilitated by an awardee, Amb. Timothy Nwachukwu, the Executive Director of Youth Advocates For Peace Justice And Empowerment Network (YAPJEN) through the support of the SSA to the Governor of Anambra State on Petroleum and Union Matters Hon Comr. Peter Nwosu. A very delighted Prof. Offornze Amucheazi who was touched by the kind gesture of the youth Advocate announced a donation of #100,000 to support the young Activitist however to the amazement of all, Amb. Timothy Nwachukwu announced an additional one year Scholarship to another Special cum indigent Student. Prof. Offornze Amucheazi in his closing remarks Promised to sponsor the indigent students who were given Scholarship by YAPJEN throughout their remaining years in the University. The President of the Lawsa Senate, Rt. Hon. Comrade Kingsley Anolue thanked all the Special guests and Students who left their busy schedules to be part of the event.