By Philip Yatai Kaduna – The Kaduna Zonal Command of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) on Wednesday sensitised catholic priests of Kaduna Arch Diocese on safe driving, in furtherance of the corps’ public enlightenment campaign to ensure safety on Nigeran roads. The FRSC Officials was led by the Zonal Corps Commander, Mr Ayobami
Omiyale, for the sensitisation campaign conducted during the Diocesan
Priests meeting at St Paul’s Catholic Church, Karji, Kaduna. Omiyale explained that the sensitisation was part of the corps’
advocacy to religious leaders in Churches and Mosques to enlist their
support in creating the needed awareness on safe driving among
worshipers. He said that the core mandate of the FRSC was to ensure safety of
lives and property of road users through public enlightenment, research
and enforcement of traffic rules among others. He advised the priests to drive cautiously and defensively and
anticipate what other drivers were likely to do while on the road. “This is the catholic church aspect of our advocacy visits and you
will agree with me that there is no better forum to reach out to the
priests than the meeting of all the Reverence Fathers in Kaduna Arch
Diocese. “The goal is to familiarise ourselves with the priests, pass the
safety message for them to help us take the messages to all their
members as a prelude to our visit to the individual churches in the
state. “But first, the priests must be educated on how to be good road users
before they can pass the message to their respective church members,”
he added. The zonal commander further said: “The FRSC is leveraging on the
influence of the catholic priests as leaders of thousands of people, and
once the priest has spoken, the people take the messages to heart. “It is not an FRSC officer that is talking to them or a patrol team
flagging drivers down to arrest them for one traffic offence or the
other; it is a priest, a spiritual father that is talking to his people. “It is our belief that they will listen and obey, and in the long run, sanity will return to our roads. “Our next point of call will be to the Christian Association of
Nigeria and the Ja’amatul Nasril Islam, so as to reach all facet of
worshippers in the state. “If it is only one word that the Imam, catholic priest or a pastor
will say about road safety during Jumaat prayer or Church worship, it
will go a long way. “Because that is what will be ringing in the minds of the people when they are driving”. Omiyale also extended invitation to the priests to join the corps’
Special Marshall with a view to strengthening FRSC’s public
enlightenment and traffic rules enforcement. Also speaking, the Acting Sector Commander, Kaduna Sector Command,
Salisu Galadunci, who spoke on the topic, “Tyre: Your Guarantee to the
Next Point”, stressed that hot season is associated with tyre bust. Galadunci therefore urged the priests to take necessary to ensure
that the tyres of their vehicles were road worthy so as to stay alive. Galadanchi particularly advised  them to avoid the use of expired or
worn out tyres, over-inflated or under-inflated tyres and take other
necessary precautionary measures. “People listen to religious leaders which makes them our strong partners in our public enlightenment campaigns,” he added. The Chairman, Council of Priests of the Arch Diocese, Rev. Father
Raymon Nandem, thanked the FRSC for taking time to enlighten them on
safe driving skills and measures needed to ensure accident free journey. Nandem assured the FRSC officials of the Priests’ interest to join
the FRSC special marshall to contribute their quota in ending road
accidents, and save lives.