By Jeff Charterton A bunch of reasons, all of which make sense. What most airlines who go this route are doing is letting you download the airline’s specific App (e.g., The United App, the Alaska Airlines App, etc.) Then, while you are inside the plane, they can stream content to your device via this app. This does not require you to purchase internet access or to get online – it’s like a closed version of the Internet. Think of it like airplane-specific Netflix. So why are they doing this? The downside to this: Airlines need to provide at least a USB port for power, or customers get (quite rightly) upset. Most people will understand the rationale, but without giving a consumer an option to power up a replacement device gets regarded as – quite rightly – a bit of a dick move. Asking customers to bring a device without giving them an option to charge that device looks cheap. There’s no excusing that. Unfortunately, the airlines have done a really crappy job of communicating. For example, United DOES have power adapters in most of their seats these days, but a lot of customers have no idea they’re even there. Why? Because they’re behind the customers knee, facing backwards between the seats. Each row of three seats will typically have two power outlets. It’s a lousy location even if customers DID realize they were there because it forces the consumer to run a power cord through space and up to the seat back. You can’t get in or out without completely unplugging everything. ————————————— UPDATE: I’ve been criticized for point 5 specifically, pointing out that variety is simply not a viable benefit. I’m going to do something a little unconventional here and reference a different answer in this same question/answer thread… Yat Sum Leung provided an excellent answer, amongst other things, pointing out: The IFE system, while sophisticated, has quite a few drawbacks. Older systems before inflight wifi normally had a media centre in the electronics bay. Each IFE monitor is connected boxes inside your seat or inside the ceiling, then to the media centre via miles of coaxial and fibre optics which basically “streams” a movie to your IFE instantly upon demand. Needless to say this is some high power consumption equipment. Ever wonder what the box under the seat in front of you may be? The thing that limits your legroom even further? Yup, that’s the seat cable box, and most of what’s inside powers your IFE screen. You can probably guess that installation is already a huge job. But updating is also pretty time consuming. Airlines update the systems with new movies and new shows like bi-monthly. The process can take hours using the dedicated uploader. Better do it during the overnight stay at an airport, and pray that there is no power interruption–otherwise you need to start over! So now, most airlines find it easier to simply provide power to outlets in the seats and allow customers to power their own devices and watch TV that way. Source: Quora