By Tosin Kolade Abuja – The Society for Water and Sanitation (NEWSAN) has pledged to sustain advocacy with the National Assembly to prioritise the passage of the National Water Resources Bill. The National Coordinator of the group, Mr Benson Attah, told the News
Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday that this was necessary following
reports of poor water supply in the country. According to him, the bill will create room for both private sector investment and employment opportunities for the people. The House of Representatives passed the bill early in 2018, the
Senate has not done same due to opposing views to the provisions of the
bill. “We have not heard about the Water Resources Bill, partly because of
this transition, sadly, the chairman of the house committee on water
resources, is not coming back, so when they reconstitute the committee,
we will have an audience with both of them. “We will continue to advocate and drive the process, we will also see
what support would be given to the Water, Sanitation and Hygiene budget
at both senate and house committee levels. He said that the National Water Resources Bill was consistent with
the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Land Use
Act, and should not be politicised for whatever reason. Attah said that the Federal Ministry of Water Resources had realised
that with the current situation of water supply and sanitation services,
the country would not meet its target in the Sustainable Development
Goals by 2030, hence the declaration of a state of emergency. He said that political will and commitment should be from top to
bottom approach to ensure that leadership supports policy implementation
for the overall goal of improving access to water. He said that political leaders ought to realise that access to water
was a basic right of the citizens, adding that issues relating to water
supply should not be politicised as a mere campaign promises. The Minister of Water Resources, Mr Suleiman Adamu, has at a recent
forum urged Nigerians and lawmakers to stop politicising the water
resources bill, saying its benefits were enormous and for the public
good. He said that the overall objective of the bill was geared toward the
efficient management of the water resources sector for the economic
development of Nigeria and the wellbeing of its citizens. “The existing laws in the sector include the Water Resources Act, Cap
W2 LFN 2004, the River Basin Development Authority Act, Cap R9 LFN
2004, the Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency (Establishment) Act, Cap
N1100A.LFN, 2004 and National Water Resources Institute Act, Cap N83 LFN
2004. “However, these laws are being re-enacted with necessary
modifications in the new bill so as to actualise current global trends
and best practices in Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM),’’ he
said. Adamu said that the National Water Resources Bill, which was drafted
in 2006, had passed through series of consultations among stakeholders
up to 2008. He, however, added that since that time, successive administrations had failed to give it priority attention until now. The bill provides for professional and efficient management of all
surface water and groundwater for the use of all the citizens. The Federal Government intends to ensure through the provisions of
the proposed law that “the water resources of the nation are protected,
used, developed, conserved, managed and controlled in a sustainable
manner for the benefit of all persons, in accordance with its
constitutional mandate.’’ The bill provides for the creation of an enabling environment for public and private sector investment. It also provides for capacity building processes to foster good
governance, while establishing a water use and licensing framework to
ensure sustainable finance for the water sector.