By Martha Agas Bokkos(Plateau) – The Federal Government on Tuesday distributed relief materials to the victims of windstorm in Bokkos Local Government Area(LGA) of Plateau. Presenting the items to the Paramount ruler of Bokkos, Mr Mustapha Maihaja, the Director-General of  National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) said the materials would be distributed to victims of the disaster in five communities. The director-general represented by Mr Ladan Ayuba, the Assistant Chief officer, Planning Research and Forecasting of NEMA, said that the distribution of the materials would be supervised by the paramount ruler with representatives of key stakeholders from various communities. “We solicit the cooperation of community leaders in the fair and transparent distribution of the relief materials to the true affected victims of this disaster. “The committee for the distribution will include members of religious groups, community leaders, the member representating the constituency and representatives of LGA council ,women and youths,” he said. The NEMA official said that the relief materials were donated to Mangu, Shendam and Bokkos Local government areas to provide succor for victims of wind and thunder storm. Receiving the items, the paramount ruler of Bokkos , Saf Michael Adamchen, commended the Federal Government for their prompt intervention, assuring that the materials would get to the affected persons. He commended the representatives of Plateau at the National Assembly for their commitment in facilitating the provision of the relief materials, saying it would reduce the sufferings of the victims. One of the victims, Mrs Talatu Tanko, a petty trader from Angwan-Kwano community in Bokkos, appreciated the Federal Government for the gesture. She said they still required assistance in order to roof their houses  and return to their homes. NAN reports that the relief materials distributed in Bokkos include, 300 blankets,150 pieces of wrappers, 30 cartoons of detergents, grains, children’s clothing and roofing materials, among others. NAN also reports that the relief material were also earlier distributed to Mangu and Shendam LGAs, which were also affected by the disaster. (NAN)