By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The battle for the Senate Presidency
remains a three-way affair for Dr. Ahmad Lawan, Chairman of the Senate
Committee on Appropriations, Alhaji  Danjuma Goje and a former Senate
Leader, Alhaji Ali Ndume. The inability of the All Progressives Congress to get two of the
contestants to step down for one may likely rub off on the party after all. There are fears that should  Goje and Ndume continue to
be  adamant, they could split the votes of  APC Senators-elect
and  pave the way for the emergence of a Senate President from the
opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). PDP, which has 46 out of 108 Senators-elect, is waiting in the
wings for a major crack in APC to determine the next Senate President. Lawan group on the other hand is making an inroad into the PDP
to be able to get a simple majority. While the Senate rules say a Senate President can emerge with a
simple majority of the votes cast during the election of principal officers,
the House of Representatives Standing Orders require a candidate for Speaker or
any office to have half of the votes of the number of members-elect at the
inaugural session. A Senator-elect from North-West said: “Both Goje and Ndume have
continued with their campaign although that of Ndume has been more obvious. “So far, Ndume appears determined to see through the election on
the floor on the inauguration day. “In spite of the fact that Goje has not set up a structure, we
know he has a ready-made platform he might use if he eventually makes up his
mind to defy APC directive. “We are not deterred at all. Where we should accord the
ex-governor respect, Lawan has done so. The Senate leader met Goje about two
weeks ago at the wedding of his daughter. Some emissaries, including
ex-governors, have also had audience with Goje on behalf of Lawan. “As for Ndume, he has  drawn the battle line from the
beginning but even at that some governors have interfaced with him to allow
Lawan to be.” A governor who is involved in some talks with Goje, said: “We
are still persuading the former governor to allow Lawan to have his way.
Typical of lobbying in any legislature, he came up with a few issues which are
resolvable. “I will not tell you the issues/ grouses/ terms as may be
applicable. We think we can mutually agree on a few things and keep our house
in order for a smooth 9th Senate.”