By Aisha Cole Lagos – The President of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Mr Tony Nwabunike, says the executives have been able to sanitise cargo clearance procedures in the last one year. Nwabunike made this known in an
interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on the sidelines of an
evaluation of 365 days of ANLCA executives in Lagos on Wednesday. According to him, our administration
is operating under the ANLCA constitution and I urge members to always
abide by the constitutional provisions to enable them follow the due
process in cargo clearance. “We are all giving thanks to the
Almighty God for keeping us steady in spite of all the challenges faced
by the executives of the association in the last one year in office. “ANLCA is ready to collaborate more
with the various government agencies operating at the ports in order to
put an end to the challenges confronting customs brokers at the ports. “Today our 365 days are gone. We still have three more years to go and it is going to be very vibrant more years. “With the support of members, we can achieve greater success and take this association to a desirable height. “Together we are going to make sure
that our operational challenges are solved. We would collaborate with
the government to ease the businesses of our members. “Members should also follow due
process in clearance of cargoes to save time and cost of doing business
at the ports,’’ Nwabunike said. He urged members to always act according to the constitution of ANLCA which he described as “supreme’’. Nwabunike gave an assurance that his
administration was ready to accept genuine advice that would bring
peace to the association. He, however, said that for
members to be patriotic, they should not be part of customs agents that
would facilitate clearance of cargo like Tramadol. Speaking on the need for compliance,
the Vice President of ANLCA, Dr Kayode Farinto, said that a container
of Tramadol costs N280 million. “If a customer gives you a Bill of Lading on Tramadol, please say no to it. “If you clear Tramadol and you make money, the law of Karma will catch you; whether you like it or not. “Let us say no to bad goods at our ports,’’ Farinto said. He explained the challenges faced by
the new executives such as: the benchmarking of cargoes at the Tin-Can
Island Command, and the random stoppage of already-cleared cargoes by
Customs units patrolling Mile 2 expressway and Ijora. Farinto said the executives were
able to put a stop to the benchmarking of N1.2 million on 40ft and
N600,000 for 20ft containers. He said that before the new
executives came onboard, the maritime police were stopping cargoes
unnecessarily, saying that they no longer stopped containers except in
collaboration with Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC). Also speaking with NAN the National
Secretary of the Association, Alhaji Babatunde Mukaila, said that the
new executives inherited no Information Communication Technology (ICT)
tools. He said within one year, the association’s secretariat was operating with ICT. Mukaila said that the establishment of ICT had gone a long way in improving cargo clearance at the ports. He said that the association was partnering with maritime lawyers to sensitise members on cargo claims. The National Financial Secretary of
the Association, Hajia Bola Muse, said that the association inherited
N434,000 in four different bank accounts and 50 dollars in the
domiciliary account of the association. Muse said that the association had
been able to generate N5 million within 365 days with the support of the
executives and members’ dues. She, however, urged members to
continue rendering their support to the executives to achieve their
mandate and take the organisation to enviable height.