By Taiye Olayemi Lagos – The National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC) has invited investors and tourists from China to come and explore abundant cultural and tourism endowments in Nigeria and invest in the sector. The Director- General,(D-G) of NCAC, Mr Olusegun Runsewe,  extended
the invitation in his speech at the Global People to People and Cultural
Tourism Panel held in  Beijing, China, on Wednesday. The media consultant to Runsewe, Mr Frank Meke, credited the NCAC D-G
to have said it in a press statement he released to newsmen on Thursday
in Lagos. It quoted Runsewe, also the African Region President of the World
Crafts Council, to have told participants at the event that Nigeria was
and still is a peaceful and hospitable country for investments. Runsewe said at the event that it was a wrong perception that Nigeria was a destination for drugs and internet fraud. He said that Nigeria was a notable key player in African affairs and
its premium relationship with world economies necessitated certain
organised dark syndicates to be attacking her. He advised the Chinese nationals to disregard such negative
narratives about Nigeria, adding that Nigeria and Black Africa would be
presenting the best pictures of cultural tourism destinations in the
next few years. “I bring you kind greetings from Nigeria and Africa and wish to
correct the wrong impression and the misleading narrative about Nigeria
and Africa in general as destination for illegal drugs and terrorism. “Nigeria is a wonderful country with rich culture but she frowns at acts unbecoming of best human practices,” he said. The NCAC boss appreciated the organisers for inviting him to share his story about Nigeria. He said that Nigerians were hospitable individuals with rich cultures
and tourism destinations waiting for the Chinese investors and tourists
to latch on. The statement said that stakeholders who spoke later commended the very frank contributions and explanations by Runsewe. They were credited to have said that Runsewe’s frank contributions
about Nigeria would open up business and cultural opportunities between
Nigeria and China.