Barcelona went into the second-leg of their Champions League semi looking certain to go through. Lionel Messi scored twice at the Nou Camp to put the Spaniards 3-0 ahead. But it counted for nothing as Anfield as Liverpool pulled off one of the greatest comebacks in European history to go through to the final win a 4-3 win. Reserve striker Divock Origi bagged the winner after dreadful defending at the back and some quick-thinking from Trent Alexander-Arnold. As Origi and his team-mates ran wild celebrating the camera turned to Messi who had a look of sheer shock on his face. He stood with his hands on his hips barely able to comprehend what had just happened. Gini Wijnaldum helped trigger the comeback with two goals in as many minutes after coming on as a half-time substitute. He said the Liverpool players had the belief they could come back in the tie despite the first leg scoreline. “Once again we showed that everything is possible in football. I was really angry at the manager that he put me on the bench but I had to do something to help the team when I came on. “We believe it from the start. People from outside (the club) they thought it was not possible but we still managed to do this.” Istanbul will always be the benchmark when it comes to Liverpool comebacks in Europe but the 4-0 dismantling of Barcelona at Anfield will run it close as Jurgen Klopp’s side reached successive Champions League finals. Trailing by three goals from the first leg no-one gave the Reds much hope but two goals apiece from Origi and game-changing half-time substitute Wijnaldum saw them progress 4-3 on aggregate. He told BT Sport: “Unbelievable. After the game in Spain, we were confident we could score four at home. Klopp swore during his interview and said he might be fined because of it. He said: “It’s 10 past 10, most of your children are probably in bed but these boys are f*g talented giants. It’s unbelievable. “Fine me if you want. I’m not native so I don’t have better words for it.” In a truly remarkable – and intense – game not only did Liverpool erase that disadvantage inside 56 minutes, they went on to score a winner and, remarkably, kept Lionel Messi quiet. For only the fourth time in the competition’s history a team was eliminated from a knockout tie having won the first leg by three or more goals, the last occasion being Barca against Roma in last season’s quarter-final. Origi’s timing in scoring his first Champions League goals was impeccable, as was Wijnaldum’s introduction for injured defender Andy Robertson. Daily Mail.