By Omuboye Sukubo Port Harcourt – The Police in Rivers say they  have secured the unconditional release of four abducted staffers of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA). DSP Nnamdi Omoni, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the
Command in the state, made this known in a statement on Wednesday. Omoni said that the four staffers, who were abducted on April 24 on
the East/West Road, were debriefed and released to their families after
they were rescued. He said that operatives of the Police Anti-Kidnapping Unit rescued the victims in a sting operation on Monday at about 0015hrs. The PPRO said that in another development, operatives of the
Inspector General of Police (IGP) Monitoring Unit in Aluu Ikwerre Local
Government Area (LGA) of the state, on Tuesday raided a kidnapping camp
at Ozuoba. “The hoodlums on sighting the police, engaged them in a gun battle
and in a return fire, fatally wounded one Stephen Matthew ‘m’ aka
‘Wenekanma’ a notorious armed robber/cultist and the gang leader of
Dey-gbam group. “He has been terrorising Alakahia and Choba Communities Obio/Akpor
LGA and killed one Ibe Chima, ‘m’ in Alakahia, in a recent attack. “Manhunt has been declared for his fleeing members,” he said. According to Omoni, the IGP Monitoring Unit, in a similar operation
at Eleme LGA on Monday, stormed a camp at Agboncha sand field forest
belonging to a notorious kidnapping kingpin, Amebe. “On arrival, Amebe was greeted with severe gunfire resulting in his death, while two others were arrested. “Exhibit recovered included, one Pump Action Gun and five live cartridges and some expended ones,” he added. Omoni stated that the war against banditry in Rivers was still on and
the police command would stop at nothing until the practice was
stopped. He urged the public to remain calm and to continue their normal
businesses as the command remained committed ensuring the safety of
lives. He urged the people to help the police make the state safe and secure. “In keeping with our avowed determination to rid the state of all
criminal elements and make it habitable for all and sundry, we need the
support of everyone,” the PPRO said.