Abuja (Sundiata Post) – A police officer has reportedly killed a bike man over N100 bribe in the Okota area of Lagos. The officer is said to have stopped Rafiu and asked for a bribe which the latter refused to part with causing him to lose his life. According to Adebayo Ishola a resident of the area, only commercial tricycle riders were allowed to ply the road which made policemen usually extorted money any other person asides tricycle riders who plied the road. Ishola said: “This morning when we saw the body on the road, there was another motorcyclist at the scene. The motorcyclist said two policemen, Monday and Ekene, were responsible for the man’s death. “Another person confirmed the presence of Monday at the scene. They were trying to extort money from the rider after he was apprehended. Monday used the butt of his gun to hit him and he fell. Blood started flowing from his head. “Immediately they saw that the blood did not stop, they abandoned him and ran inside their station. I heard a motorist who drove behind the motorcyclist saying Monday and Ekene were the culprits”. Another witness, Shola, said; Shola said: “I was trying to board a vehicle when I saw the motorcycle rider in a pool of blood. Immediately alerted the police to the scene because no policeman was outside at the time. When I told them that there was someone on the floor, they rushed outside, put him inside their vehicle and rushed him to hospital”. The incident which was filmed and has since gone viral.  A otorcyclist who witnessed the incident said; “The okada man was going on his own. He chased him; yes, he chased him. I know him (the policeman). He is tall, dark.” The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, in a statement, said; Bala said: “The attention of the Lagos State Police Command has been drawn to a video being circulated on the social media in respect of a commercial motorcyclist said to have been chased to his death by a police officer. The allegation is false and a complete misrepresentation of the facts. “On Wednesday, May 8, 2019, around 6am, the police at the Ago-Okota Police Station heard a loud sound a few meters away from the station and rushed out to ascertain what was going on. They found a motorcyclist in a pool of blood with his motorcycle on the ground. The victim was taken to hospital, but eventually died. “On inquiries from eyewitnesses around the scene, it was gathered that the motorcyclist was involved in a fatal crash with a vehicle along the Ago Palace Way. “An eyewitness, Mr Adedayo Benson, stated that this morning (Wednesday), he was standing in front of the Century Hotel and saw the motorcyclist, who was riding at top speed, ram into a road bump and suddenly applied his brakes but was hit by a Camry car driver, who was behind him. “The driver of the Camry ran before the arrival of the police. Investigation into the accident is ongoing to track and apprehend the driver of the car with a view to bringing him to justice”. Source: Information Nigeria