By Rob Riker What 3 habits can transform my life completely? You want your life to be 100x better? Develop the following three habits and execute them every single day. A man without a mission is a man without a purpose. And without a purpose, you’re meaningless. You’re going to change that today by finding a mission that becomes your #1 goal. Once you have your mission, spend your first productive hour working toward your goal. Do this every day. Two things happen here: First, by using the first hour of your day, you’re using your brain when it’s fresh energized. If you try to do this after a ten-hour workday, you’ll be too tired or you’ll produce suboptimal work. Second, it guarantees that you get it done every day. It doesn’t matter how the rest of your day goes because you already worked on your mission with a focused mind. Consistency brings momentum. And momentum drives results. A year later you’ll be blown away with what you’ve accomplished. I love this habit because it’s very doable and delivers multiple benefits. First, it’s a great exercise that works many different muscles in your body. Your pecs, shoulders, triceps, lats, abs, and probably others I’m not mentioning. This one exercise can alter your body composition more than you think. Also, it can be done with little time and you can do it practically anywhere, which means you’ll be more likely to do it. Second, it’s a confidence booster. As your body improves, your confidence will grow. And when you feel your muscles increasing in size, you naturally want to stand straight with your shoulders back (in the naturally confident “power pose”). Third, when you exercise and start to feel and see the changes, it has this weird effect on you that makes you want to eat healthier too. You see your self as healthier and cognitive dissonance kicks in and so you eat healthier. Instead of cereal, you’ll want a protein shake. Instead of pancakes, you’ll want eggs. Lastly, you get a beautiful positive feedback loop. The more you do this, the easier it gets and the better you’ll feel, so you’ll want to do more of it. Maybe you increase it to 200 push-ups per day. Or you add 100 squats, 30 pull-ups, or some other exercise to the mix. This has a better effort-to-reward ratio than any other habit I can think of. Your quality of life is highly correlated with your social skills and the people you spend your time with. By starting conversation with strangers on a daily basis, many things begin to happen: Your social skills improve from repeated practice. You’ll meet a lot of new people and serendipity will “just happen” because you’re creating so many opportunities for it. Some of these people might help you with something, teach you something new or become your new best friend. You’ll enjoy life more. Life is so much more fun when you’re enjoying it with other people. When you’re doing something alone, being able to start a conversation and bring another person into your world can make the moment 100x more fun. Forcing myself to talk to strangers consistently is the habit I’m most thankful for developing because it has had the biggest and best life-changing impact. If you want to completely transform your life, simply follow the advice above. Source: Quora