 By Charles lwuohha •Asiwaju Tinubu The leadership of the Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) has accused the former governor of Lagos State and national leader of All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, of plans to revoke all properties owned by Ndigbo in Lagos. The group made this known through in a statement signed by its National Director of Information, Comrade Edeson Samuel, and issued on Thursday in Abakaliki, capital of Ebonyi State. The statement reads in part: “It is very clear that President Muhammadu Buhari and his Fulani cabals have perfected their plans to establish Northern agenda which has been their utmost aim to frustrate, destabilise and crush the entire eastern region because of their hatred against Biafra. “The railway quarters in eastern region are death traps and some so-called Igbo leaders will be shouting one Nigeria. All railways in the east have been taken over by grasses and armed bandits.” MASSOB described those who claimed that they are Igbo political leaders as failures. “MASSOB wishes to remind Ndigbo of our think home agenda, Ndigbo must start relocating their industries, businesses and other investments back to Biafra land because a bird at hand worth more in the bush. “MASSOB remind our people that Nigeria will never like you because of the pathological hatred they have against Ndigbo. “All Igbo wealth in the northern region will one day be on fire in the name of religious crisis by these Islamic terrorists. Igbos who are still building mansions and shopping malls in Lagos should also know that Bola Tinubu, the godfather of Lagos State has perfected plans to revoke all properties own by Ndigbo in Lagos State  through the new puppet he installed as governor of Lagos State. “MASSOB is urging Igbo businessmen especially the importers not to use Kaduna dry port unless Calabar, Onitsha and Port Harcourt see ports are rehabilitated and functional. “MASSOB advised that Ndigbo should use other neighboring countries sea ports because you cannot beat a child and at the same time stop him from crying. “MASSOB advised Eastern governors to establish industries and mechanic villages in their respective States. They should also repair the abandoned ones by federal government to avoid kidnapping, armed robbery and other criminal acts in Eastern region”. Source: News Express