Actor and comedian, Ime Bishop, popularly known as Okon Lagos, has clarified his position on rape after coming under heavy criticism on social media. He had made a poorly received joke about the women allegedly sexually assaulted during a raid by police in Abuja. The 37-year-old gave an explanation of his views via Instagram on Thursday. “It’s terrible when we give a dog a bad name in order to hang it. Who justifies rape? Obviously not me. I think lots of people have problems with hearing and comprehension. Listen well again to the video I made. I never defended the animals that raped the girls. “I only tried to open up another perspective to the crime they committed and that is robbery which attracts in most cases, instant death penalty by jungle justice while also condemning commercial sex hawking! Hear, Listen, Understand or shut up!!!” he captioned the video. It's terrible when we give a dog a bad name in order to hang it. Who justifies rape? Obviously not me. I think lots of people have problems with hearing and comprehension. Listen well again to the video I made. I never defended the animals that raped the girls. I only tried to open up another perspective to the crime they committed and that is robbery which attracts in most cases, instant death penalty by jungle justice while also condemning commercial sex hawking! Hear, Listen, Understand or shut up!!! A post shared by  Ime Bishop Umoh 🇳🇬 (@okonlagos) on May 15, 2019 at 4:55pm PDT Policemen in the Federal Capital Territory recently went on a raid of nightclubs, arresting women they accused of being sex workers. Some of the women reported that they were raped in detention as condition for their bail. The action of the policemen led to protest by women on the streets of Abuja and widespread condemnation on social media. Reacting in a video posted on Instagram, Okon said sexual assault of sex workers couldn’t be classified as rape. According to him, the policemen only stole for the women without paying for service (sex). Source: qed.ng