By Joshua Olomu Abuja – Maverick entertainer and activist, Charles Oputa, a.k.a ‘Charlyboy’, on Wednesday returned to the music stage to thrill fans at the 2019 edition of ‘Nite of a Thousand Laughs’ show in Abuja. CharlyBoy, singer/songwriter and former president of Performing
Musicians Association of Nigeria (PMAN), alongside his dancers, held
audience to electrifying performances at the Transcorp Hilton. The show, put together by Yankee Entertainment, was a night of humour
and glamour, as both upcoming and established artistes took turns to
entertain the crowd before the ‘Areafada’ came on stage. The 68-year-old showbiz maestro, who released his debute highlife
album over three decades ago, performed his latest recorded advocacy
songs,‘Na we be Government’,’ ‘Our Mumudondo’, among others. Lyrics of the songs were largely motivational, urging citizens to be
patriotic and to hold leaders accountable in order to collectively build
a virile nation. CharlyBoy told NAN in an interview that he decided to use music as a
tool to inspire ordinary Nigerians, especially youths, to realise that
power truly belong to them. The “Nwata Miss” crooner explained that he was leading an advocacy
and enlightenment campaign on the “Social Contract” to Nigerians
across all backgrounds. “Music has been my age-long passion, and this time I am using it to
awake the consciousness of all Nigerians, no matter where they are,
towards building the country they desire. “A lot of Nigerians do not believe they have a say in the affairs of their country, and this makes them to be docile. “The Social Contract Initiative is designed as a contract between the
citizen and the elected officials to collectively build a nation of our
dreams. “It is a contract between the people and the government at all levels, that citizens, will vote, pay taxes and be patriotic. “However, citizens also require that government provide basic
amenities, protect human rights and guarantee the security of lives and
property. “Citizens will do their part and political leaders should also
fulfill their obligations as promised in their manifesto, and as
required by the constitution,” he said. Also in an interview with NAN, Dr Udy Okon, Executive Director of
Youth Alive Foundation, commended CharlyBoy and his ‘Ourmumudondo’ team
for “championing the course for national rebirth.” “CharlyBoy has passion for a better country, and that is taking him
across the country with the message of building a better Nigeria through
good leadership,” she said.