By Esenvosa Izah Lagos – The Medical Guild has pledged to work with Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to achieve a successful implementation of good health policies for the benefit of the citizens of the state. The Guild’s Chairman, Lagos State branch, Dr Babajide Saheed, gave the assurance in a statement on Thursday in Lagos following the assumption of office by Sanwo-Olu and his Deputy, Dr Femi Hamzat on May 29. Medical Guild is an association of doctors employed under the Lagos State Government. “Medical Guild congratulates Sanwo-Olu as the Governor of Lagos State and his Deputy, Hamzat. “We also congratulate Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu and Mrs Oluremi Hamzat as the wife of the governor and deputy governor respectively,’’ he said. The chairman, however, said that there were expectations of the governor to ensure the development of the health sector; through qualitative healthcare delivery. Saheed said that for the state to achieve a comprehensive Universal Health Coverage, the administration should ensure it provides equitable, accessible and affordable healthcare delivery to the residents. “This can be achieved through employment of health workers to take care of the increasing population of the state. “Also, there should be provision of well-equipped infrastructure for the health institutions that meet international standards. “Government needs to convene a Lagos State Health Summit to foster synergy among the primary, secondary, tertiary health agencies and the Ministry of Health to bring about viable productive health sector policies,’’ Saheed said. He said that other expectations include increasing the retirement age of medical doctors from 60 to 65 years old. According to him, this will enhance efficiency, making use of the competent hands and reduce contract employment of retired doctors. Saheed said: “We need the government to appoint medical doctors as Permanent Secretaries of the state health agencies in accordance with Lagos State Health Sector Reform Law of 2006. “This is to bring efficiency in administrative running of the agencies for the betterment of the society.’’