By Philip Yatai Kaduna – Lere Local Government Area of Kaduna State has executed 101 capital projects at the cost of N500 million in 11 months, the Executive Chairman, Malam Abubakar Buba, has said. Buba told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Kaduna on Thursday that the council achieved the feat because of the overwhelming support of Gov. Nasir El-Rufa’s administration. He said that the state government had given all the local government chairmen the support they needed to succeed, particularly in the area of financial autonomy. He listed some of the capital projects done by his administration to include 11 solar-powered motorised borehole, 38 hand pumps, a 14 kilometer feeder road, box and ring culverts and drainage. “In the area of education, we have been able to renovate and equip 38 primary schools, procure and distribute exercise and textbooks on mathematics, English language and general science to primary school pupils. “In health, we have procured and distributed beds, mattresses and medicines to our primary healthcare centres to improve service delivery. “We have equally built the capacity of our staff and empowered our youths and women for self-reliance,” he said. The chairman said that several youths of the local government area have been sent to Lagos to learn skills on solar energy maintenance. He added that other youths were in Kaduna State University for skills acquisition programmes and acquiring digital skills on information and communication technology. “On women empowerment, more than 500 rural women have received N5,000 each as grant to establish small businesses for their source of livelihood. “I think we have done well considering that we are just 11 months in office and there are several ongoing people-oriented projects that would be completed soon. “I want to assure the people of Lere local government area that we will continue to do our best in improving their standards of living by executing life-changing projects that will impact on their lives,” Buba added.