“I saw someone who looked just like you!” You’ve probably heard that at least once in your lifetime. But are people who look exactly like us possible? Think about it: you walk down a street and you see a multitude of faces. How many look almost the same? Now, take a walk in a park and look at the squirrels bandying about. Can you really tell them apart? Okay, you can all slow your roll now! We all know that it is possible for you to look so much like another person who is not in any way related to you, hence a doppelgänger. Well, a bride, who has been dubbed Tiwa Savage’s doppelgänger by fans of the music star in Nigeria, has made her first headlines for the same reason. So what about the stories we read and the accompanying photos where two people definitely look strikingly similar? It might be a case of our genes running out of options. Though our features vary more than any other animal, our genes do not. In fact, we aren’t that genetically diverse. So eventually, the numbers would dictate that certain features resembling yours and will randomly combine. But that doesn’t mean they are an exact duplicate of you. Tosin, who bears a striking resemblance to Nigerian singer, Tiwa Savage, released her wedding pictures online and got everyone thinking it is Tiwa. The young lady who is now becoming an internet sensation got married to Charles in a traditional ceremony that fused two tribes according to what we understand from the post shared By BNW. The beautiful bride really does look like she was Tiwa Savage. The Caption read, “We love to always deliver a rich representation of our culture especially when it comes to weddings. Today is a mix of two unique culture brought together by love. Tosin and Charles traditionally tied the knot and it was a fusion of the Yoruba and Igbo traditions. The ceremony started off with the bride’s culture in focus and then after performing all the traditions of the Yorubas’ they moved on to take on the Igbo culture. We have no doubt you will want to see it.” Here are more photos: Here are some of the comments gathered from social media users Source