By Perpetua Onuegbu Abuja, – Dr Emmanuel Odunze, the National Consultant, Food and Agriculture Orgnanisation (FAO) of the UN says Nigeria has huge potential in food security and has enough to export. Odunze said this at the opening of a two-day Step-Down workshop on the Revised and Harmonised Characterisation, Inventory and
Monitoring of Animal Genetic Resources tools for Africa in Abuja on Friday. The workshop is organised by the National Biotechnology Development Agency (NABDA). He said that Nigeria had huge potential in food security, all the country needed to do was to harness these potential. He added that “you can see the fertile lands, the genetic breeds,
Nigeria has the potential in food security and can even export;
government should try more in allocating resources and deploying the right manpower to the food and agriculture sector. “More resources and manpower should also be deployed for logistics to
increase food production and the Federal Ministry of Agriculture
should support the private sector. “We are here to support NABDA in the genetic animal resources because
we believe that it is a very important component in livestock
production for us to have a resilient genetic resources in Nigeria. “Some of our genetic breed are going extinct and the only way to
conserve them is to have a reference lab and have the manpower resources
to sustain what we have.” The FAO consultant added that characterisation was essential to know
animal potential and categorisation to improve them for cross-breeding
to get optimal results. Odunze said FAO had set a global agenda for all the countries of the
world, talking about global plan of action on animal genetic resources, 
and was willing to intervene in any area the country required
assistance. Dr Poopoola Mustapha, the Project Lead, Animal Genetic Resources in
Nigeria, NABDA, said it was time Nigeria started getting to the field on
animal genetic resources. According to him, throughout the African continent there is an harmonised tool now on characterisation of the animals. He said “we want to do a detailed research and understand the animals
to characterise them, that means they have different characters in
terms of physical features and
genotypic ones that make one animal to be different from the other. “It is very essential to do research before you rear animals, to go
into the animal business, you must understand in detail what the animal
stands for. “For instance, we have goats in this country but do you know that one specie of goat can have 14  different varieties? “In other parts of the world, particular species are grouped and are known as one. “But as at today, because there is uncontrolled breeding, animals are
crossing the way they like, thereby causing genetic dilution. “This workshop is therefore, aimed at stopping such genetic dilution.” Poopoola added that the workshop was also aimed at making sure that
all animals were well grouped and characterised for better breeding. Prof. Alex Akpa, the acting Director-General, NABDA, said the
workshop was a significant milestone in the country’s history of animal
genealogy. He said “the country is set to build the human capacity of the first
set of trainers who will be deployed to train field workers across the
country to characterise our indigenous breeds and species of livestock
across the value chain. “NABDA had been providing a veritable platform to advance the
sustainable management and utilisation of animal genetics in Nigeria
since 2016. “The Animal Genetic Resources  laboratory in NABDA is equipped with
relevant equipment to facilitate the practical session today and
tomorrow. “I hope the outcome of the workshop will go a long way in providing
technical skills required to continue the characterisation of livestock
species and breeds in Nigeria.”