By Nkiru Ifeajuna Lagos – A musician, Akintunde Brown, popularly known as  Akin Brown  has advised his  fellow musicians to always preach about love, integrity, determination, loyalty, truthfulness, honesty, giving respect to one another among youths. Brown said they could achieve this by ensuring that their songs
revolved around positive moral themes as stated above during their
visitations to schools. “Musicians must through their music inculcate moral values in every
individual because they will help youths and adults to distinguish
between what is right and wrong in the society’’. Brown told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos that musicians
as role models should always sing about how youths can live genuine
lives in schools. “We need to lecture the young ones that life is not as easy as they
think; we should let them realise that they have to take one step at a
time for them to achieve something in life. “That life is not about war, hatred, cultism, violence, killings and other crimes but about co-existence and love. “We need to tell them to avoid drug abuse, kidnappings and other
vices and report such to the relevant security agencies instead of
taking the laws into their hands.’’ Brown also said that musicians needed to visit schools where they would encourage students to embrace hard work. The musician noted that some Nigerians were attaching more importance to politics than to their fellow citizens’ ways of living. He said that the youth should strive at self accomplishment and not to think that manna would fall from heaven. Brown advised youths to embrace creativity, and continue to pursue
areas of vocational interests they had bias for while in school after
graduation. “We have to impart a lot into the youth by using our influences and knowledge to shape them for the future.’’ He advised those that would be willing to pursue a career in music to be formally trained and acquire the requisite skills. He said that he would soon embark on a tour of schools because the nation’s youths needed mentoring in morals. He said that teaching the youth moral values would help to develop their moral compasses. Brown said this would also shape their perceptions about the larger society and how they could be of good behaviour. “They need to develop moral qualities such as humility, truthfulness,
honesty, courtesy, tolerance, sacrifice and others,’’ he said. NAN reports that some of Brown’s songs include: “Odigba’’; “Jankolo’’; “Have you’’, “Fussion of highlife’’ and others. He,  born in Lagos, attended the Ladoke Akintola University of
Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso, PEFTI Institute and the MUSON School of
Music. He had also played with Nigerian’s foremost contemporary folklore
music song writer, Segun Akinlolu popularly known as “Beautiful Nubia’’
on his music festival platform. He had also played at the alumni concert of the Lagos Business School in Lagos.