By Ginika OkoyeAbuja, – Stakeholders in the yam value chain have appealed to various regulatory agencies to ensure that only members of the National Association of Yam Farmers, Processors and Marketers are yam exporters. They made the appeal in a communiqué released in Abuja on Sunday at the end of a four-day study tour to the Republic of Ghana. The communiqué was signed by Prof. Simon Irtwange, the National President, National Association of Yam Farmers, Processors and Marketers and the Chairman, Technical Committee on Nigeria Yam Export Programme and other stakeholders. It noted that the appeal if implemented would allow for zero rejection of the produce at the international market, monitoring and export prevention of bad quality yams. According to the communiqué, allowing only members of yam association to export yam will reduce incidences of concealment of unauthorised substances and undeclared products in consignments. The stakeholders appealed to the Nigeria Agricultural Quarantine Services (NAQS), Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) and the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) to champion the implementation. “In Nigeria, yam export is an all-comers affair carried out in some cases by enthusiastic Nigerians lacking knowledge of the commodity. “Only members of the National Association of Yam Farmers, Processors and Marketers should be allowed to export yams. “Enforcement of which should be done by NAQS, SON and the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). “This is to allow for zero rejection through monitoring and prevention of export of bad quality products,’’ it said. The communiqué also suggested that yam exporters in the country should procure yams that would not require cutting of the head and waxing. It said that infected yam tubers should be removed from the export lot to avoid the reoccurrence of 20 per cent rot of yams during the official flag-off of the commodity for export. “Our yams are to be exported under the brand name, `Nigerian Fresh Yam’. “Branding on the basis of regions or zones and states is confusing and therefore prohibited. “Poor transportation, logistics and infrastructure riddled by insecurity and unauthorised toll gates (informal taxation) remains a major barrier to yam export in Nigeria. “Transport times are higher in Nigeria than for many landlocked countries in Africa. Many exporters are relying on air transport, which is the most expensive transport mode. “The Federal Government should take decisive actions in fixing these challenges and dealing with all the issues that limit air cargo services out of Nigeria to 10 per cent of cargo capacity. “Nigeria is encouraged to select yam export varieties based on good marketing characteristics and selling propositions for production and promotion rather than being fixated on the pona variety,’’ the communiqué explained. It said that the tour was organised by the National Association of Yam Farmers, Processors and Marketers in conjunction with the Technical Committee on Nigeria Yam Export. The tour was supported by the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment and the Yam Improvement for Income and Food Security in West Africa, Phase II (YIFFSWA-II) Project of the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), Ibadan. The aim of the tour was to enable Nigeria to have knowledge of standards and systems put in place by Ghana that led to their success stories in yam production, storage, processing, packaging and export.