By Salisu Sani-IdrisLilongwe -. The Nigerian Government delegation headed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Geoffrey Onyeama, on Sunday arrived Lilongwe, the capital of Malawi to deliver relief materials to the country. President Muhammadu Buhari directed the Minister and the Director-General of National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Alhaji Mustapha Maihaja to deliver the relief assistance. The delegation would visit the three Southern African countries of Malawi, Mozambique and Zimbabwe hit by the Cyclone Idai. On arrival at the Kamuzu International Airport Malawi, the delegation was received by the Nigerian High Commissioner to Malawi, Amb. Stanley Diriyai. In a brief remark, the Minister said the Nigerian mission was earlier in Malawi to ascertain the nature of the damage caused by the disaster and to decide the kind of intervention needed by the country. Onyeama said based on the feedback Nigerian government received, NEMA procured essential drugs and over 8,000 other relief items such as mosquito net, injection stringes and other things that were needed. The Minister also disclosed that the Nigerian government also donated 500,000 US dollars to Malawi to help the country provide succour to the victims of cyclone. According to him, Buhari also sends his sympathy and solidarity with government and people of Malawi. “Despite our economic and other challenges, President Buhari feels that it is incumbent on him and his government to provide whatever assistant Nigeria could. “We are here with the delegation to do that. We hope it will contribute in some way to alleviate the terrible suffering that was caused by the flooding and of course hurricane that took place.” Diriyai appreciated the support of the Nigeria Government to the government and people of Malawi, adding that the gesture was timely and showed brotherhood by Buhari. The high commissioner said whatever affects black races anywhere in the world affects Nigeria. The Minister of Foreign affairs would on Monday formally present the relief items to the government of Malawi.