By Ismaila Chafe Abuja – The Federal Executive Council on Thursday approved N4.6billion for the construction of seven model schools to be located in the six geo-political zones of the  country. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohmmed, made
this known when he briefed State House correspondents at the end of the
Council meeting which was presided over by Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo
at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He explained that the model schools would be sited in Bauchi, Imo,
Lagos, Nasarawa, Katsina Edo states as well as the Federal Capital
Territory (FCT). The minister also revealed that the council approved N1.6billion for
the procurement of first‐line and second-line regimen of antiretroviral
treatment drugs. “The Federal Executive Council approved the award of contracts for
the supply of first-line antiretroviral medicine for the National Agency
for the Control of AIDs to three different locations; namely the
Central Medical Stores in Oshodi (Lagos), Umuahia (Abia) and Jalingo in
Taraba. “There was also approval for the supply of second-line antiretroviral medicines for the same agency. “The different between the first-line and the second-line is that
when you give the first-line antiretroviral some patients do develop
resistance. “So, for such patients, they have to go to the second-line antiretroviral,’’ he said. The minister disclosed that the council approved N1.8billion for the
upgrading of additional 11kilometers road network at Quarters Community
in Gwagwalada while another N440.9 million was approved for review of
sewage master plan for FCT and design of Interceptor Sewer lines for
Phase V including production of tender documents. He stated that N1.47million was approved by the council for the
supply of Field Materials (Gaseous Chlorine) for water treatment by the
FCT Water Board. He also disclosed that another N668million was approved by the
council for the provision of Powder Coated 8mm Diameter wire fence on
round/square post complete with accessories at Pedestrian Bridge
locations within the FCT. The minister stated that the council also approved N525.5million for
the procurement of birds and pest control equipment to be installed at
Murtala Muhammad International Airport Lagos and the Nnamdi Azikiwe
International Airport Abuja. He said the Ministry of Mines and Steels got approval for the
procurement of truck-mounted drilling rig for exploration activities at
the N331million