It is a sad time for the family members of an Akwa Ibom State University student killed by suspected cultists. Gunmen suspected to be members of a secret cult shot dead one Emem Jimmy, a 200-level student of the Department of Political Science, Akwa Ibom State University, Punch has reported. The hoodlums, who were said to be operating in the university’s campuses on Thursday, killed the student after he resisted them when they attempted snatching his mobile telephones, as well as other belongings. Southern City News gathered that Jimmy died around 12.30pm. The hoodlums were said to have trailed and attacked him around 9pm on Wilson Idiong Street, Ikot Okoro Road, in the Oruk Anam Local Government Area of the state. A statement by the Head, Directorate of Information, Public Relations and Protocol of the institution, Mr Akaninyene Ibanga, and made available to our correspondent on Monday, said the victim was rushed to a medical facility for treatment but died two days after he was admitted to the facility. “Emem was shot on Thursday, May 02, 2019 between the hours of 8.30 to 9pm on Wilson Idiong Street, Off Ikot Okoro Road, Obioakpa, Oruk Anam Local Government Area while resisting the attempt of gunmen to snatch his mobile phone. He was rushed immediately to hospital for treatment. “Management of the university took over the hospital bills just to save his life, but on Saturday, Emem could not survive the struggle with death. He finally passed on around 12.30pm,” the statement said. However, the institution’s management, in another statement expressed sadness over the incident and warned the criminal elements behind the act to get ready to face justice. The statement said, “The vice-chancellor of the Akwa Ibom State University, on behalf of management, staff and students, expresses his deep sadness over the unfortunate demise of Emem Jimmy, a 200-level male student of Political Science Department. “The VC condoles with members of the family of the deceased. He also appeals to all members of the university community to remain calm and continue with their normal business and duties while speedy effort is being made by the relevant law enforcement agencies to get the perpetrators of this heinous act.” According to the statement, the VC, Eno Ibanga, frowned on recent reports of cultism and other related vices on the campus. Source