MAPUTO – The World Bank has increased emergency support for the three southern African countries affected by a devastating cyclone that killed hundreds in March to $700 million, the lender said on Friday. More
than 1,000 people were killed across Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Malawi
after Cyclone Idai, the worst cyclone in decades, lashed the eastern
Indian Ocean coast bringing heavy winds and rains. New World Bank
President David Malpass, who is in Africa for his first foreign trip,
said the lender was still assessing the damage caused by Cylcone Kenneth
that slammed the island nation of Comoros and then northern Mozambique
last month. As a result, there could be further assistance,
Malpass said after touring areas affected by Cyclone Idai in the
Mozambican port city of Beira on Friday. “But even from the
existing assistance programme that was directed initially for Cyclone
Idai, some of that money we expect to already begin to be used for
Cyclone Kenneth,” Malpass told Reuters. “And as the damage assessment comes in there could be more assistance available.” The
bank said it was activating the International Development Association
(IDA) Crisis Response Window (CRW) to provide up to $545 million in
total for the three countries. The IDA is the bank’s fund for the poorest countries. “This
is in addition to nearly $150 million in resources that have recently
been made available from existing projects. Together, total World Bank
support to the three countries’ recovery reaches around $700 million,”
the bank said. Mozambique, which was hardest hit by the cyclone,
would receive $350 million in CRW financing to re-establish the water
supply, rebuild damaged public infrastructure and support disease
prevention, among other things, the World Bank said. Malawi
would get $120 million in financing, while the lender intended to
provide an exceptional allocation of up to $75 million to select United
Nations agencies to support Zimbabwe. “The World Bank Group is
working closely with our partners to help the population recover from
these terrible storms, build back stronger than before, and improve
countries’ resilience to natural disasters,” Malpass said in a statement
announcing the support. As
part of his Africa trip, Malpass had also travelled to Ethiopia and
Madagascar to visit several World Bank Group-funded projects, and held
meetings with government leaders, private sector representatives, and
other stakeholders. In April, the World Bank estimated the direct
economic losses from Cyclone Idai in Mozambique to range from $656
million-$773 million, covering damage to buildings, infrastructure and
agriculture, a note sent out via the United Nations said.