It could have passed as a joke that the federal government represented
by the loquacious minister of information, Lai Mohammed will accuse the
presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Atiku
Abubakar of treason. But it was a joke taken too far. It is on
record that all through the three times that Buhari contested for
president and was defeated, he challenged the outcome of the election at
the court up to the Supreme Court. No one mounted pressure on him to
drop his cases at the court and that he lost those cases due to lack of
diligent prosecution was nobody’s fault. Not once at that time did
anyone accuse him of being a threat to democracy even though his
utterances were clear threats to peace and stability of the country at
that time. In 2013, then known as General Buhari made incendiary
statements capable of leading the public to violence that ‘the monkeys
and baboons will be soaked in blood,’ yet no one passed a fatwa of a
felon on him. Ironically, too, the same Lai Mohammed was the
spokesperson of the then opposition All Progressives Congress and he
issued every manner of fallacious press statements against the ruling
party and government yet no one addressed an international press
conference to call him an enemy of the state. As far as the PDP
was concerned in those days, both Buhari and Lai were playing their
roles as opposition elements then and there was no reason to label them
enemies of the state. If Atiku’s only offence was going to the
court to challenge the outcome of the February 23 presidential
elections, it beggars the question why the APC and Buhari desperately
want Atiku to withdraw his litigation if indeed President Buhari had
truly won. At first, the story was that government was mounting
pressure on Atiku to drop his case at the court with some mouthwatering
offers. Obviously, that didn’t work. And now, there is this shameless
outburst by the same government that Atiku and the PDP are overheating
the polity. It is evident that the only right conclusion to reach on the
matter is to sum it up as a case of mobilizing the stick where the
carrot did not work. From available public record, Atiku is not a
stranger to political persecution. And if the APC and the Lai Mohammeds
of this world were wise enough, they should pretty well know that the
man they are dealing with is sturdier when he is under the fire. In
his long history of defending democracy, Atiku has slipped through the
claws of dictator like Sani Abacha and even dared the tempest of
Olusegun Obasanjo when he served as Vice President under the
administration. In each of those episodes, he not only came out
victorious, but stronger. Given the military nature of his
government, one can excuse Abacha for attempting to muscle out
opposition. But what of a supposed democratic government headed by a
self-confessed convert democrat? The Buhari administration in
the past four years had done nothing tangible other than buck passing
and blame game. If a government came into power on the premise of change
it should be expected that such a government will set forth with
clearly thought out policies that will achieve that objective. Four
years down the line, the best you can credit the Buhari government of
doing are random and worthless programmes such as Tradermoni and the
school feeding schemes which, in practical term, are ambiguous. If
the administration cannot provide explanations for the wide spread
criminality in the country and there is also no explanation for why the
economy has remained moribund since 2015, isn’t it obvious that the
government is merely groping in the dark? And to add more to the
provocation, whenever they are overwhelmed by the consequences of their
actions and inactions, they run to town blaming the opposition. For
goodness sake, in spite of all the down turn in every facet of the
Nigerian life, the president never deemed it fit in four years to even
cause a review of his cabinet. No cabinet minister was sacked, none was
swapped and the administration is here telling us that it is the
opposition that is over-heating the polity. Should the government have
an ear, let them hear that they are the very cause of their problem –
our problem. Was President Buhari anticipating a different
outcome from this current chaos when, despite all the hues and cries
about how bad the economy was going and the security being poorly
managed, he refuses to change the personnel in charge of those
functions? His government spent a whole four years blaming the previous
administration and now their new song-song is to blame the opposition
for their self-inflicted misfortune. Important cities in the
Northern part of the country from Kano to Zamfara are embroiled in one
form of crisis or another, the government is not showing any obvious
interest in intervening in those crises and the next thing we will hear
is that PDP and Atiku are planning to overthrow the government. Just
out of the blues, the military a few days ago came out dissociating
itself from an alleged coup plot. About two days after, it all began to
make sense when Lai Mohammed came out with his outburst about the
opposition planning to disrupt the federal government. We can estimate
it as part of politics if the government would cry wolf to make the
opposition look bad. But it will be more than disappointing if the
military actually did submit itself as a cannon fodder in a political
brickbat. And, in any case, there is absolutely nothing in
Atiku’s political record to justify the outburst. If the former Vice
President did not support any military government when military rule was
fashionable, is it now that totalitarianism has become an anathema that
he will begin to support it? Whichever way the musical chair
ends, we can only wait and see at what limit the government will call
itself to order in the apparent bid to frustrate the opposition and the
challenge against President Buhari’s second term election at the court. •Sanni, a public analyst wrote from Ilesha, Osun State.