George Uboh, the controversial man who has gone to court to stop the Senate reconfirmation of CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, was convicted and had served a jail term in the United States in 1992, investigations have showed. Investigations also showed that he was convicted for another fraud and sentenced in Nigeria to three years imprisonment by Justice S. E. Aladetoyinbo of the Federal Capital Territory High Court Abuja, for his role in converting the property of the defunct Police Equipment Foundation to his own use. According to judicial records, Uboh was arraigned by the EFCC on a three count charge which bordered on Criminal Breach of Trust involving the sale of PEF vehicles. He allegedly abused his position as former Head of Security and Communication Department, Police Equipment Foundation, PEF, to convert the properties of the foundation to his personal use. The charge reads: “That you, George Uboh, sometime in 2007 in Abuja, the judicial division of the high court of the Federal Capital Territory, being a servant in the employment of the Police Equipment Foundation, and in such capacity entrusted with certain property, to wit: six units of operational vehicles, did commit criminal breach of trust by selling one Toyota Hilux pick-up van through one Egbon Blessing, and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 314 of the penal code. “That you, George Uboh, sometime in 2007 in Abuja, the judicial division of the high court of the Federal Capital Territory, being a servant in the employment of the Police Equipment Foundation, and in such capacity entrusted with certain property, to wit: six units of operational vehicles, did commit criminal breach of trust by selling one Toyota Hilux pick-up vans to Muha Motors, and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 314 of the penal code. “That you, George Uboh, sometime in 2007 in Abuja, the judicial division of the high court of the Federal Capital Territory, being a servant in the employment of the Police Equipment Foundation, and in such capacity entrusted with certain property, to wit: six units of operational vehicles, did commit criminal breach of trust by selling two units of Toyota Hilux pick-up vans, and therefore committed an offence punishable under Section 314 of the penal code.” He had pleaded not guilty, thus setting the stage for full trial during which the prosecution called several witnesses to prove its case. Uboh claimed that the former National Coordinator, PEF, Kenny Martins, gave him some PEF vehicles to offset the debt owed him by the Foundation. However, during cross-examination, he admitted that he did not have any evidence of transfer of ownership of the vehicles from PEF. “I know the vehicles belong to PEF. But it was to offset the debt owed me. The Hilux pickup vans are four and not five,” Uboh said. With his conviction today, Uboh who runs a company called Panic Alert Security System (PASS), completes a double as a certified fraudster having previously been convicted of wire fraud in the United States. He was prosecuted after US law enforcement agents carried out a major raid on a credit card and bank fraud ring led by Uboh in Georgia in 1992. He came out of jail on January 16, 2001. Fifteen years after, he is back in jail. However, Justice Aladetoyinbo gave Uboh an option of N 4 million fine.