By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Group under the auspices of Arewa
Online Publishers’ Forum has presented the Shining Light of Honour Award to the
President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki, Speaker of the House of
Representatives, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara, Senator Shehu Sani, Senator Magnus
Ngei Abe and Senator Kabir Garba Marafa. The National Chairman of the Forum, Mordecai Sunday Ibrahim while
presenting the awards on Tuesday, also described the 8th National Assembly as
the most productive since 1999, in spite of intimidation and harassment. According Ibrahim, the Forum unanimously resolved to honour
Saraki, Dogara and the three Senators to show their appreciation and
recognition of the work of the 8th National Assembly “in defence of democracy
and the independence of the legislature.” The Chief Press Secretary to the President of the Senate, Sanni
Onogu, disclosed this in a statement sent to Sundiata Post. Ibrahim said: “You will agree with me that notwithstanding
distractions that the leadership of both chambers of the 8th National Assembly
faced, they were able to provide quality leadership that culminated in landmark
legislations, which made the 8th National Assembly the most productive since
1999. “It will be recalled that Senate President and the Speaker
at various times suffered serious distractions, subtle harassment and intimidation
for their loyalty and commitment to make the National Assembly a true
parliament, representing the Nigerian people. “Their unwavering loyalty and commitment to the Federal
Republic of Nigeria provided decisive, purposeful and effective leadership that
inspired most senators and members to equally put in their best through quality
and patriotic contributions at plenary and committee levels that culminated
into landmark legislations. “As a matter of fact, but for the decisive and effective
leadership provided by the President of the Senate and the Honourable Speaker,
Nigeria’s fragile democracy would have been turned into a democratic dictatorship,”
he stated. He lamented a situation where some Senators and House
Members will not make it back to the National Assembly while fighting a
populist cause. “Nigerians are living witnesses and are proud of majority of
the members of the 8th National Assembly for resisting sustained blackmail,
intimidation and temptation by the executive to become its rubber stamp,”
Ibrahim stated. In his response, Saraki thanked the leadership of the Forum
for the recognition, saying the award would further encourage the parliament to
defend democracy and pass legislations where the interests of the people would
remain paramount. He stated that the National Assembly would continue to
defend the nation’s democracy as well as its own independence, “since a weak
parliament can only make for a weak democracy.” On his part, the Chairman House Committee on Media and
Publicity, Hon. Abdulrazak Namdas – who received the award on behalf of Dogara
– said the parliament would continue to work for the betterment of the
generality of Nigerians.