By Jessica DogoAbuja – The Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, has tasked hospitals in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to embrace hardwork so as to get their laboratories accreditated and certified globally. Adewole said this during the presentation of certificate of the National (International Organisation for Standersation) ISO 15189: 2012 accreditation to Bwari General Hospital Laboratory, on Tuesday in Abuja. The minister, who was represented by the Senior Technical Assistant to the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, Dr Bassey Mfon, described the gesture as a global recognition by the ISO. He said that this would help the confidence of those working in the Bwari facility. He also assured that the ministry was keen on healthcare service delivery and providing the right standards of service to the patients to rely on health professionals to overcome their challenges. “We rely on health professionals to overcome their challenges and quality facility committed to serve all per excellence. “Bwari hospital is the first to be accredited in the FCT and fourth to be accredited in the country. “This is a facility given global recognition through the presentation of the ISO 15189: 2012 and it is a hallmark of quality anywhere around the world. “This facility has now joined the aggregate of quality facilities for excellence. I urge all FCT facilities to key into the process of getting their laboratories accredited,” he said. The Secretary, Health and Human Services Secretariat (HHSS), Malam Adamu Bappah, said that the secretariat was poised to bring healthcare services to all nooks and crannies in the territory. Bappah said it was important that adequate and standard laboratory services were provided to sustain the medicine and surgical, internal medicine, radiology and general surgery as well as sub-specialties in medical care. He expressed joy that the certificate received by Bwari general hospital laboratory was in tandem with the core goal of utilising every given opportunity. “This national accreditation we are receiving today ultimately elevates our position as a quality healthcare facility and informs patients, health service companies, government, implementing partners and other stakeholders. “Our healthcare facility is dedicated to excellence in patients care and laboratory services. “We set ourselves to utilising every opportunity and subjecting ourselves to national and international standards geared towards recognition and certification. “It is also my task to make healthcare delivery services affordable, available and accessible to residents of the FCT,” Bappah said. Dr Aminu Mai, the Manager, Hospitals Management Board (HMB), explained that the facility was selected based on compliance and level of implementation, which independent and authorised agencies certify the quality and competence of a medical laboratory standards. Mai stated that the hospital and four other FCTA hospitals started pursuing the accreditation in 2016 with a baseline assessment by the HMB’s quality and monitoring services implementation team. According to him, the benefits of accreditation of Bwari general hospital was national and international recognition of a medical laboratory as reliable and technically competent. “It assures clients that the test results and data generated by it are accurate, reliable and timely. “It also provide opportunities of attracting researchers to engage accredited laboratories for clinical trials,” he said. (NAN)