By Mustapha Sumaila Abuja – The African Development Bank (AfDB) has pledged to support the Federal Government to provide infrastructure development to boost Agro-business in the country. The President of the bank, Dr Akinwumi Adesina made the pledge in
Abuja on Tuesday at the AfDB Investors Forum on promoting “Special
Agro-Industrial Processing Zones (SAPZs)’’. Represented by his Special Adviser on Industrialisation, Prof. Banji
Oyelaran-Oyeyinka, Adesina said the bank would ensure support on
improved export capacity of agricultural products at land borders,
seaports and airports. “The Federal Government of Nigeria shall be supported (through the
AfDB) to invest in farms to market roads and provide infrastructure. “Crowd in private Anchor investors will be supported through the
AfDB’s private sector window to invest in crop production, crop yield
enchantment, agro-processing and other country situated value addition
capabilities,’’ Adesina said. He said the broad objectives for the establishment of SAPZs were to
raise income, eliminate unemployment, especially youth joblessness,
reduce food import bill to the barest minimum and reduce prices of
high-value food products. According to him, this will be done by raising productivity of the
following Agro-industry sub-sectors, Agriculture, Forestry, Livestock
and Fisheries production and through value addition to these materials
by way of agro-industrial processing. “In specific terms, we want to promote private local and foreign
investments in agribusiness, increase the contribution of the
agriculture sector to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), foster
wealth and employment creation, especially jobs for the youth. “We will bring basic infrastructure to rural areas, link smallholder producers and SMEs in priority value chains. “The SAPZ we believe will lead to a doubling or tripling of the GDP
of rural areas in a way that bridges the Rural-Urban Divide,’’ he said. The president added that the High Income Economies (HIEs), the share
of agribusiness in GDP was substantially higher than that of
agriculture. According to him, the ratio of the share of agribusiness to that of
primary agriculture is typically higher and greater than the per capita
income of the country. “Globally, the agri-food industry which is a sub-set of manufacturing
agro-industrial processing is the largest subsector of the
manufacturing industry, representing 10 to 30 per cent of this sector. “This sector had more than 40 million employees in 2018, it is eight
and five times of both, bigger than the global Information Technology
(IT) and automotive industry. “In the 1980s/1990’s, the economies of Southern and Northern parts of
Nigeria, especially Kaduna and Kano States were driven by
agro-industrial sub-sectors namely: cotton and textile production. “These states had several mills, Kaduna had about 10 textile mills
with direct employment of more than 10,000 workers and over 20,000
indirect employment from allied industry. “The United Textile Company alone employed more than one million
workers. This country was on the way to becoming an undisputable player
in the major supplier of good quality wax-resistant textiles known as
Ankara. Today we have become a consumption economy. “Before the Asian countries took over and dominated this sector just
like others, the textile industry was generating on the average two
billion dollars per year with no less than 180 textile factories all
over the country. “For many in this hall today, names such as United Textile Company,
Aba Textile Mills, Afprint, Arewa Textile Mills, Gaskiya Textile factory
and others great in oil palm, forestry, fisheries, leather are all a
faded memory.’’ According to him, destiny beckons to all to return to the sustainable path of manufacturing. Adesina disclosed that SAPZ initiative would be implemented through
identification of raw materials and communities as well as locations
engaged in the production of strategic materials. He said there was the need to agree and create the knowledge and
infrastructure capacity for production enhancement, processing and
quality export at competitive prices, sustainable national
self-sufficiency and attain food security. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that participants of the
forum were drawn from the public and private sectors in the
Agro-industries.