By Randreason Poau There’s truth to the saying that intelligent people are often very quiet and tend not to speak much. The reason is simple. An intelligent individual views an ideal conversations not as a point A to point B message, but as a kind of web. 
When such a person speaks with someone that is of average intelligence he often gets frustrated because most people can only understand the surface of what the intelligent person is trying to convey. It’s very easy for an intelligent person to recognize another, it happens as soon as the conversation starts to flow, and for example intelligent person X is talking about the movie Good Will Hunting and finishes his phrase with the quote “how about them apples”, now intelligent person Y unlike most persons doesn’t focus on the subject of “movies” or “apples” instead person Y is able to gather knowledge and express himself in his reply in more abstract ways while still directly staying in the underlying subject. Person Y might reply something like “It’s still the top company in the S&P 500, so they’re doing well, just like Will Hunting had the potential to right, but he probably wouldn’t be the image of a company like Steve Jobs, he wouldn’t want the recognition; While Steve Jobs gave his speeches in cambridge, Will Hunting prefered anonymity while being a janitor at Harvard solving award winning mathematical problems in the chalkboard after the students left. ” Person X laughs in joy and continues conversational flow As you can see, in the dialogue between X and Y, they don’t stay at the surface topic of a conversation, every topic or subject is integrated in others like a web of communication. A green flag that you are speaking with an intelligent person when they don’t lead every conversation to their specific area of knowledge (profession, hobby) but instead talks about everything while staying in subject. The stereotypical timid and intelligent guy usually will enjoy hours long conversations when he finally finds someone who is able to carry on an intelligent conversation. It’s extremely frustrating to have a well developed subject in mind and see the someone reply with the same simplicity as elevator talk, which is what happens 99% of the times. So we tend to be quiet to not frustrate ourselves.