Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB)
has declared May 30, 2019 as sit-at-home day throughout Biafraland and Nigeria
in remembrance of its fallen heroes and heroines. The group urged religious institutions across the country to
offer special prayers the night before the day for Biafran heroes murdered in
cold blood in the region. In a statement issued on Wednesday by its Media and Publicity
Secretary, Emma Powerful, the group said the day would be a time to remember
victims of Boko Haram and Fulani herdsmen attacks. It explained that the entire Biafraland would be in total lock
down, adding that there would be no human, vehicular or animal movements across
Biafraland on that day. The statement partly read, “Churches,
Mosques, Synagogues and Temples are encouraged to open their places of worship
on the midnight of the 29th of May for special prayers in remembrance of all
that died as a result of violence and sponsored killings. “Special vigil will be held at the homes
of select Biafran heroes and heroines who were murdered in cold blood in
Biafraland. “This year’s remembrance and sit-at-home
order will be special because it will present a unique moment of shared pains
and misery for all the families that lost their loved ones to war, hunger,
starvation, disease, terrorism and state sponsored killings going on now in
Nigeria. “We
remember the heroic few that stood up against tyranny especially those that
sacrificed their lives to defend the defenseless and those that lost their
lives because there was no one to defend them. “The middle-belt and Yoruba brethren are
advised to join this historic sit at home order to honour the memory of all
that died unjustly in Nigeria. “We are calling on all the people of
Southern Kaduna, Middle Belt especially Benue, Adamawa, Nasarawa, Kogi, those
affected by herdsmen terrorism in Ondo, Osun and other states in Yorubaland to
join the great family of IPOB in observing a day of solemn prayer and sit at
home to remember those that lost their lives unlawfully at the hands of Fulani
terrorist herdsmen and security agencies even during the recently concluded
fraudulent 2019 general elections. “In our usual tradition, all IPOB
families in the diaspora must rally on the streets of their respective
countries with written petitions ready to be submitted to the nearest United
Nation offices and embassies of foreign missions in that country.” Source: The Nation