It is not news that Nigerian actors and actresses have been falling ill and dying in recent times. Many Nollywood actors we see on screen may not be rich as we think.
Because most of their role is a ‘Big man’ depict on screen does not
implies that they are financially buoyant in the real life and that is
why most of them  seek for external help whenever they are plagued with
illness that is bigger than their pocket. Meanwhile some Nollywood actors
lived a reckless life without thinking of saving for the ‘unexpected’.
So this makes the actors in this category gets little or no pity
whenever they need assistance from their colleagues and the public. And also, some are too proud to let their situation known, so when their poor situation is finally revealed to the public atimes it becomes too late to save their lives  Most Actors who have died of illness falls into one or
more situations mentioned above. As much as we try to sympathize with
them, we also believe a lot could have been done to avoid these
illnesses as they are mostly linked to one bad habit or the other. Below is the list of actors and actresses that have cried out for
help in terms of funding but still went on to glory – may their gentle
souls rest in perfect peace. Prince James Uche was popular for lead roles in
classic movies such as Igodo and Lost Kingdom was discharged abruptly
from the hospital because he could not afford to pay his hospital bills
in January 2017. Actors like Desmond Eliot rose to his rescue
along with his son and appealed to the public for funds to take care of
the ailing actor as Prince James needed at least 15 million naira for
his kidney transplant surgery in India. Well meaning Nigerians came to his rescue and the
funds were raised for his treatment but the ailing actor still passed
on to Glory on the 8th of March, 2017. Popularly known as Elder Maya, Martins Njubuigbo died after battling
with a liver disease for a long period of time. Before he kicked the
bucket, he was in need of just 1 million naira for hospital treatment
bills and he went ahead to solicit for pulic funds from Nigerians. A popular cleric came to his rescue and helped him with 1 million naira in donation. However, the actor still passed on in October, 2016. Ashley Nwosu also passed on to glory in April, 2011 after battling with Liver complications at the age of 58. It is reported that Nollywood deserted him during his ailment period
wvwn when it was rumored that a lot of colleagues were indebted to him
financially. The family still went ahead to seek for help but their pleas fell on deaf ears and the actor died. When Enebeli Elebuwa fell ill in 2011, Segun
Arinze apealed to well meaning Nigerians to help raise funds to treat
the ailing actor who was battling with stroke. Delta state government came to his rescue and
flew him to India for proper treatment but it was too late as the actor
passed on still. After he died, Stella Damasus expressed her
disappointment at the way the matter was handled by his colleagues while
accusing them of using social media as a tool to publicize their help. Ibadan
based actor, Olumide Bakare was admitted into UCH in Ibadan after he
suffered cardiac arrest. He cried out forhelp from his colleagues while
begging them to assist him financially for his hospital bills and also
send a word of prayer to his family. He however passed away in April, 2017 after he had been ill for a long time.