Enugu, – The Albino Foundation and the Coal City Literary Foundation on Thursday celebrated a renowned author and medical guru, Prof Anezionwu Okoro as he clocks 90 years. Born May 17, 1929, the nonagenarian dermatologist is the author of
many fictions, medicine/health, environmental sciences and ecology
including One Week One Trouble, The Village School and the Village
Headmaster. Prof Anezi, as he is fondly called, has also written over 200 poems. His recent publication is the translation of 10 Lamb’s tales of
Shakespeare to Igbo language entitled, `Akuko Ufodu Shakespeare Koro’ in
collaboration with another author, Mrs Nwobiara Chukwura. Okoro, a native of Arondizuogu in Imo, is the first dermatologist in West Africa and the second in Africa. Speaking at the event, Mr Jake Epelle, the National President and
Founder of Albino Foundation said that the dermatologist was the brain
behind the foundation. According to Epelle, the Albino Foundation will not have been known
without Prof Anezi who fought the cause of albinos since the 50s. “His intervention in the lives of albinos has enabled us to have clearer skin,” he said. He said that the author had lived his life purposefully and
selflessly without being recognised nationally and thanked God for
keeping him alive till 90. In her remarks, the President of the Coal City Literary Foundation,
(CCLF), Dr Adaobi Nwoye described the renowned author as a `formidable
pillar of the foundation’. Nwoye said that as the Chairman of CCLF Board, the professor had been
in the forefront of its growth by encouraging and mentoring the young
ones to imbibe the culture of reading and writing. Mr Victor Atuonwu, former Chief of Staff to former Gov. Sullivan
Chime and Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State expressed dismay that in
spite of numerous contributions to national development, Okoro had not
been recognised by any government. “Prof Anezi Okoro was a member of NNPC board, yet he does not own an
oil block; he was a board member, Universal Basic Education Commission
(UBEC) and he came out unscathed during a scandal. “Prof Okoro was instrumental to the site of the Federal Capital in
Abuja, yet no street was named after him nor received any national
honour,’’ he said. Atuonwu described Okoro as the `only Nigerian that is not corrupt’
and urged the federal government and the South East Governors in
particular to recognise and honour him in his lifetime and not
posthumously. Also speaking, the author’s wife, Dr Ese Anezi-Okoro said her husband
was a loving and caring husband and father for over 50 years. Ese who is a gynaecologist, disclosed that her husband refused
several political appointments because of his commitment to the
development of the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital (UNTH). She thanked the groups and friends for celebrating the professor saying that she would always cherish their kind gestures. Responding, the nonagenarian thanked the groups for always celebrating and remembering him which he said was rewarding. “I am even happier to be celebrated by the younger generation and
friends. It is a great honour and I thank God for keeping alive to see
this day,’’ Okoro said. Highlight of the occasion was the cutting of cake by the nonagenarian.