Abuja
(Sundiata Post) – Court of Appeal sitting in Abuja on Friday struck out all the
four appeals filed by ex-Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen, in
relation to his trial before the Code of Conduct Tribunal. The three-man bench led by Justice Stephen Adah, in the four unanimous
judgments, held that three of the appeals had become academic since the trial
had been concluded by the CCT. One of the appeals was ruled to be incompetent. But
delivering judgment on the appeal challenging the January 23, 2019 ex parte order made by the CCT for
the suspension of the ex-CJN, Justice Adah, who read the lead judgment, held
that the order was issued in breach of the appellant’s right to fair hearing. President
Buhari had acted on the order to suspend Onnoghen and had sworn in Justice
Tanko Muhammad as the acting CJN on January 26. Justice
Adah noted that the order was not only made when the defendant had yet to be
arraigned before the CCT, but it was also obtained in a manner “shrouded in
secrecy and clandestine manoeuvre.” He
noted that while all the parties to the case during the January 22, 2019
proceedings of the trial agreed with the tribunal to have the case adjourned
till January 25 for the hearing of pending applications, the prosecution went
behind the defendant to obtain the ex
parte order on January 23. Justice
Olabisi Ige, who read the lead judgment in another appeal, also held that the
CCT ought to have been bound by the various court orders from the National
Industrial Court and the Federal High Court stopping the trial. The
judge held that the tribunal ought to have “tarried a while” and file an appeal
to the Court of Appeal to have the orders set aside, instead of ignoring the
orders. However,
all the justices, including Justice Tinuade Akomolafe-Wilson, who delivered the
lead judgment in another appeal, held that there was nothing wrong in the CCT’s
decision to hear the appellant’s notice of preliminary objection along with the
prosecution’s interlocutory motion on notice. They also ruled that the CCT rightly applied the provisions of Section 306 of
the Administration of Criminal Justice Act by refusing the defendant’s
application for stay of proceedings. Justice
Adah, in another judgment, dismissed Onnoghen’s appeal challenging the warrant
of arrest issued against him by the CCT. The
appeal was struck out on the basis that the appellant failed to present a copy
of the arrest before the court. Meanwhile,
the Court of Appeal has yet to fix a date for the hearing of Onnoghen’s appeal
challenging his conviction by the CCT.