By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Group under the auspices of Academic Staff Union of Research Institutes (ASURI) has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to as a matter of necessity assent to the National Research and Innovation Council (NRIC) establishment bill, 2019 passed by the 8th National Assembly. ASURI which made the call during its sensitization rally in Abuja informed that neglecting of research since Nigerian independence has been the bane of the nation’s socio-economic challenges. The National Secretary General of ASURI, Dr. Theophilus Ndubuaku
urged President Muhammadu Buhari to assent to the National Research and
Innovation Council (NRIC) establishment bill, 2019 passed by the 8th National
Assembly. Ndubuaku who lamented the importance of the bill, noted that
many current technologically-advanced and rich nations such as China, India,
Japan, South Korea and Malaysia initiated similar policies and were consistent
with its implementation. He observed that the NRIC bill is a component of the agreement
reached by the federal government/organized Labour 16-man Technical Committee
on minimum wage and palliatives, stressing that the committee recommended, in
section 1.9.30 of the report, the “Establishment of a Tax Fund for Adequate and
consistent funding of research institutes, colleges of Agriculture and Forestry
and Allied Institutions”. When asked if he has studied the content of the National
Research and Innovation Council bill recently passed by the national Assembly,
he reminded that the National Policy on Science and Technology (NPST) was
initiated since 1966 and has been revised not less than 13 times since then
without the political will to implement it until January 7, 2016, when President
Buhari inaugurated the NRIC which is the main impetus of the NPST. According to him, “the origin of that bill dates back to
1966, that bill is a pull-out from what you call the national policy on Science
and Technology. Which was initiated in 1966 and has been reviewed thirteen times
until 2016. ASURI, is the Academic Staff Union of Research Institutions,
representing the interest of researchers in Federal Research and Development
Institutions, colleges of Agriculture and Forestry, Allied Institutions and
Centres. Ndubuaku explained that the palliative committee deliberated
extensively on the socio-economic status and concluded that the neglect of
research and science and technology by successive Nigerian governments since
independence is the reason for the challenges of insecurity and other national
malaise which are currently threatening to dismember the fabric of the Nigerian
Nation. “To complement the
inauguration by the President, 50 senators co-sponsored the NRIC bill, which is
almost a verbatim adaptation of the 2012 version of the NPST, to provide the
enabling statute for the council” he said. Meanwhile, Ndubuaku, debunked the assumption that with TETFUND
intervention, researches conducted in universities will suffice. “We assert
that there are glaring dissimilarities between the largely basic,
individualistic, blue skies research (also defined as research without clear
goal) in universities and the focused, interdisciplinary, applied
research in research institutions”. He maintained that “The concept of academic freedom allows
lecturers free choice of research endeavors which oftentimes are not targeted
at the development needs of the Nation. In research institutes, the research
mandates and development objectives are well-defined and focused