By Emmanuel Acha Enugu – The Enugu State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), on Thursday sensitised residents of some parts of the state about impending flood in the days ahead. The Executive Secretary of the agency, Mrs Nkechi Eneh, made this
known during a flood sensitisation campaign at Nkanu East Local
Government Area of the state. Eneh said that the campaign was in collaboration with the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA). She said that the mission became necessary due to the forecast by
Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency (NIHSA) and other relevant agencies
which designated parts of the state as flood flashpoints. She said that according to the forecast, the council would be
affected, saying that residents of the area need to brace up for the
incident. “There is no doubt that the world has witnessed an increase in natural disasters and our state has had its fair share. “That is why we are here to equip you with disaster-reduction
measures because the safety of residents of the state is top priority to
this government,’’ she said. Eneh said that the state government would not wait until the
disasters occurred, noting that proactive measures had to be put in
place. She said that parts of the local government area had always been hit
by flood in the past and the 2019 flood outlook was not different. She warned residents of the area to resist the temptation of building on waterways and blockage of drainages. Eneh warned them to be on the lookout for early warning signals,
saying that whenever it occurred, “people that reside in low-lying areas
should immediately relocate to higher grounds’. Mr Fred Anusim, South-East Coordinator of NEMA, said that the area would probably be hit by flood between April 11 and Nov. 21. Anusim said that the council would witness a total rainfall of 226
days, saying that the rainfall would favour agricultural activities with
expected high yield. He, however, warned farmers to ensure that they harvest their farm produce in good time to avoid destruction by flood. The coordinator urged farmers in the area to be on the lookout for
incidences of pest infestation in their farms and report same to
agriculture extension workers. “Temperature is expected to remain high. Therefore, expect heat stroke and measles. “There will be increase in mosquitoes and disease-carrying vectors,’’ he said. Anusim said that while cases of lassa fever might be expected,
residents of the area should also watch out for waterborne diseases due
to expected encroachment of dirty water into sources of drinking water. Earlier, Chairman of the council, Mr Godwin Ubagu thanked the agencies for embarking on the sensitisation mission. Ubagu said that residents of the area had always been beneficiaries of the good gestures of the agencies.