By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Imo state Governor, Hon  Emeka Ihedioha, has berated the erstwhile
Governor of the state, Chief Rochas Okorocha for the grievous assaults he meted
on institutions in the state. Ihedioha who noted that “The legislature, judiciary and the
civil service, all suffered grievous assaults and with the House of Assembly
made redundant and court orders routinely disregarded, however, reassured that “Imo
shall rise again,” Ihedioha stated this in his inaugural speech shortly after being
sworn-in by Imo Chief Judge, Justice Paschal Nnadi, at the Dan Anyiam Stadium,
Owerri on Wednesday. The governor, who sympathised with the people of the state over
what he described as “debased and desecrated governance,” promised to remedy
the damages done by the immediate past administration. He solicited the cooperation of all stakeholders in the
rebuilding process, pointing out that appropriate steps would be taken so as to
restore faith and confidence in government. “The outgoing administration degraded and destroyed most of our
institutions and values. “The legislature, the judiciary and the civil service, all
suffered grievous assaults, with the House of Assembly made redundant and court
orders routinely disregarded. “But Imo State will, as always, endure. Imo will revive and
prosper again. “We urge you to be courageous in this conviction, for we are not
captives of fear. “We will not waste a day getting to work to renew the Imo
promise of our founding fathers. Therefore, we will take appropriate measures
to restore faith and confidence in government. “I stand ready to personally interface and facilitate with any
person or company willing to establish business in Imo. Together, we shall achieve
the Imo of our dreams. “Imo shall rise again,” the governor said. In a reaction, however, Chief Press Secretary to Okorocha, Mr.
Sam Onwuemeodo, said he was not surprised, insisting that the ex-governor left
shoes too big to fit into. Onwuemeodo listed Okorocha’s achievements to include free
education, security and urban renewal. “Owerri is fastest growing city in the Federal Republic of
Nigeria. In 2011, no one could move out of their houses after 7.00 p.m., but
today, Imo is secure and businesses are thriving. “We raised the bar and the shoes are just quite big,” he said. (NAN)