Dr Mrs Ebere Obiano, wife of Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State, South-East Nigeria, is among dignitaries currently in London for the swearing-in of Ernest Ezeajughi as Mayor of the London Borough of Brent, United Kingdom. Mr Ezeajughi, a native of Anambra State, made history on April 16, 2019 when he was elected Mayor by the College of Councillors on Brent, London. Apart from Mrs. Obiano, other special guests attending Ezeajughi’s swearing-in, which started from 17:50 GMT today, Wednesday, May 1, 2019, are Deputy Lieutenant Mei Sim Lei; Nigerian High Commissioner to London, Ambassador George Oguntande (represented by Special Advisor, Minister Oludare E. Folowosele); former mayors, councilors and Council officers. Mayor Ezeajughi started his political career as a member of one of the founding fathers of the UK chapter of a major Nigerian political party, the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) – the ruling party in Anambra State. He was the UK Chapter Chairman in 2010-2012. The father of four thereafter joined UK politics and was soon became a strong member of the Labour Party. Prior to his election as Mayor, Ezeajughi, a strong member of the Labour Party, won election for a Councillor position representing Stonebridge ward at Brent Council in 2014. He was re-elected in 2018, retaining his seat in the white-dominated political environment after a very keenly contested election. He was elected Deputy Mayor of Brent within a year. Born in Awgbu Town in Orumba North, Anambra State, Ezeajughi had his primary, secondary and tertiary education in Anambra. He attended Aguata High School, Aguata, and Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, where he studied Applied Microbiology. Ezeajughi was actively involved in student union politics, representing the departmental student union body. After graduation in 1998 and completion of his National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), he worked briefly in the private family business – Koval Linkworld Agencies Ltd – before migrating to England to join wife. In England, Ezeajughi obtained a Master’s degree in Science (M.Sc) from the prestigious Kings College, London. A Scientist by profession, he worked with Medicine and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) before delving into UK politics. Source News Express