By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former chairman of the
Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Ikeja Branch, Adesina Ogunlan on Wednesday collapsed
in the dock during arraignment by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission
(EFCC) at an Ikeja Special Offences Court. According to The Nation, Ogunlana collapsed,
when the EFCC prosecution, Samuel Daji, asked the trial judge, Justice Mojisola
Dada, to remand him in prison custody after he pleaded not guilty to a 30-count
charge alongside other defendants. Though his state of health is not known, his colleagues
rushed to lend helping hands and were subsequently offered a seat while the
prosecution counsel and the defence counsel argued his bail condition. The EFCC had arraigned Ogunlana, for alleged
stealing and money laundering alongside his predecessor, Yinka Farounbi and
immediate past treasurer of the association, Aderinola Kappo. According to the charge, the three defendants
collectively allegedly stole a total sum of N20 005, 000 belonging to the
association. They were alleged to have committed the offence
between 2016 to 2018 by converting the said amount to personal use. EFCC alleged that the money was paid into Ogunlana’s
First bank account through issuance of cheque ‘without authorisation’. The prosecution informed the court that the
offences are contrary to Sections 278(1) (b) and 285(1) of the Criminal Law of
Lagos State of Nigeria, No, 11, 2011, Conspiracy to commit felony to wit.
Stealing contrary to Section 409 and 285 (1) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State
No. 11. Laws of Lagos State of Nigeria 2011. The defendants, however, pleaded not guilty to
the charge preferred against them by the EFCC. Following their not guilty plea, the
prosecution counsel led by Samuel Daji urged the court to remand the defendants
in prison custody pending the court’s ruling on their bail application. Daji said: “We urge the honourable court to
grant us accelerated hearing in this matter and also to remand the defendants
in the prison custody. “My lord
the first and third defendants are flight risk. They jumped the administrative
bail granted them by the EFCC and the third defendant even gave us the address
of the house she has left two-years ago and the landlord is also looking for
her. “They were supposed to be reporting at the EFCC
office every Friday but they didn’t comply. “These defendants have also been threatening
our witnesses as well as operatives of the EFCC by agents of the first
defendant. I urged the court to remand the defendants
accordingly, after all, governors are being kept in prison custody. There is no
big man in where to keep defendants.” The defence counsel, Mr. Akin Olatunde,
however, urged the court to grant the defendants bail on liberal term. ” We literally fought the prosecution to
prosecute this matter and they have been coming to court since Monday. “The court is at discretion to admit the
defendants to bail after their arraignment. The essence of bail is for
defendants to be present in court. They are responsible personalities who are
ready to come for the trial anytime as demonstrated in their coming since
Monday,” Olatunji said. After listening to both parties, Justice Dada
granted bail to the defendants as requested. The judge said: I have considered the case of
the matter and considering the fact that the defendants are ex-officials of the
Nigerian Bar Association, the court will be granting them a temporary bail. Justice Dada ordered the defendants to submit
their international passports to the court registrar pending the determination
of Thierry bail condition. She thereafter adjourned the matter till June
3, 2019, for hearing of bail application and opening of the prosecution case.