By Akeem Abas Ibadan – The All Progressives Congress(APC), Oyo State Chapter, has lauded Gov. Abiola Ajimobi for naming some roads and institutions after late former governor, Lam Adesina, and other prominent indigenes.. Chief Akin Oke, the State Chairman of the party, commended Ajimobi
while addressing newsmen at the parry’s secretariat in Ibadan on
Thursday. The News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) recalls that the governor had on
Tuesday announced the renaming of the roads and institutions after some
prominent individuals and himself. Among those also honoured were former Gov. Adebayo Alao-Akala, former
Gov. Rashidi Ladoja, Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, Olubadan of
Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji and Soun of Ogbomoso, Oba Jimoh Oyewunmi. Others were late Chief Adeseun Ogundoyin, Amb. Olu Saanu, late
Justice Adejumo Kester, Chief Onikepo Akande and Justice Atilade Ojo. Oke said that the public edifices were renamed after the individuals,
having served meritoriously and contributed their quota to the
development of the state and Nigeria. He described the honour done to Adesina and others as well-deserved
and gratifying in view of their indelible record of service to humanity
in general and Oyo State in particular. “We in the progressive fold are particularly glad that our departed
leader would have to be immortalised with such befitting public
edifices. “Sen. Ajimobi has done us proud again and we would forever appreciate
his kind gesture. Same goes for other eminent personalities honoured. “This singular gesture would go a long way to encourage other people
to do all within their capacity to serve well and benefit humanity as
much as they can especially when they have the opportunity,” he said. Oke said that the announcement could not have come at a better time,
adding that contemporary leaders would have to strive and beat the
record of those who had served before them and left the scene with their
heads high. “Apart from being the executive governor who laid the foundation of
democracy in the state in this Fourth Republic, Adesina was a fantastic
educationist, columnist, human rights activist and parliamentarian. “He did not spare any opportunity to impact positively on the lives of his people while he was alive. ” Everyone who claims to be Lam’s disciple should be in the APC now with this development. “Honouring such an enigma with worthy public edifices is a fantastic thing that only a wonderful mind can deliver,” he said. He said that the governor had again ” given life to the section of
our National Anthem which states that the labour of our heroes past
shall never be in vain.” ” In view of this, the entire global progressive family are grateful to the Architect of Modern Oyo State,” he said. NAN reports that the Challenge – Efunsetan road was renamed as Lam
Adesina road, Elebu road is now Alao-Akala Way, Monatan –Olodo road now
Rashidi Ladoja road while Idi-Ape – Bashorun Akobo road is now Abiola
Ajimobi way among others.