By Constance Imasuen Abuja – The Federal Government is committed to addressing the menace of building collapse in the country, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, Minister of Science and Technology has said. Onu gave the assurance on Friday in Abuja while receiving the report of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Building Collapse. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the report submitted by
the committee were on some areas which had experienced building
collapse in recent times. They include Sogoye, Bode Area along Molete/Bere Road, Ibadan; No.
14, Massey Street, Ita-Faji, Lagos Island (East), Lagos State. Also included is No. 54, Kakawa Street, Lagos Island Local Government, Lagos State. ”We in the ministry are committed to making this our own contribution
to our nation and to ensure we bring to zero, in the future, the number
of buildings that will ever collapse in our country. ”It is the responsibility of every government to ensure all citizens
are secured and live under environments in which they can make
contributions possible for the growth and development of the nation. ”We cannot afford to have any more of our buildings collapse, this
can happen in other countries but we do not want it to happen in
Nigeria. ”This report is so important to our country and our president is
concerned because we cannot afford to lose a single human being because
human life is sacred,’’ he said. Onu said that the members of the committee were carefully selected,
adding that the Federal Government was deeply touched with what happened
in both Lagos and Ibadan, particularly the loss of lives in Lagos. ”And many others who suffered severe injuries as a result of the
collapse of the building that was converted into a nursery school in
Lagos Island. ”We have seen from the report that the three buildings that collapsed
had different reasons for their collapse, and we need to take very
important steps to correct the mistakes that were made. ”I am so happy that since Nigerian Building and Road Research
Institute (NIBRR) has been intervening, there has been a drastic
reduction in the total number of building collapse in the country. ”But we cannot be satisfied until we get to a point where no building
can collapse in the country. We know it is very difficult to attain but
this is a goal we are setting for ourselves. ”I am confident that with the work this committee has done, once the
recommendations are implemented we will move very close to zero collapse
of buildings,’’ the minister said. Earlier, while presenting the report of the committee to the
minister, Prof Samson Duna, Acting Director-General, NBRRI, said that
the committee had developed and adopted a methodology to address the
challenge before it. He said that all professionals in the construction industry preparing
building designs must integrate the geo-physical survey data in their
designs. Duna added that professionals must take into cognisance the nature of soils on which structures are being erected. ”Modifications to existing buildings should only be carried out by a
team of building industry professionals where permissible by statute and
bye laws. ”Any alterations should be approved by the relevant government agencies before their implementations. ”Illegal conversion of buildings and none-use of relevant
professionals for modifications in the sizes of height and building
often leads to deficiencies, failures and collapse and should be
avoided,’’ he said. According to him, the committee also recommended that every state in
Nigeria should have a functional Urban and Regional Planning Tribunal
that is fully empowered to deal with all forms of violation in the built
environment. Duna advised that the public should be adequately enlightened on the
need for post construction maintenance throughout the life of the
building since poor maintenance could lead to building collapse.