VocationalBy Isaiah EkaUyo, May 27, 2019 (NAN) Mrs Elizabeth Adedigba, Director, Technology and Science Education Department, Federal Ministry of Education, on Monday, said that the Federal Government was committed to the development of vocational and technical education. Adedigba made this known in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on the sidelines of the 5th Annual National Students Skills Competition held at the Federal Science and Technical College (FSTC) Uyo. She said that the gesture was to create wealth for the youth. She said that government had put infrastructure in place to enhance the study and learning of vocational and technical skills across the 21 Federal Science and Technical Colleges in the country. “The Federal Ministry of Education is very passionate as long as vocational education is concerned. “The Honourable Minister and the Permanent Secretary are passionate about this; hence they have put infrastructure in place. “They have renovated workshops across the country. They have renovated science laboratories and this type of programme that we are having is to showcase ingenuity of what our students can produce. “Going round today, we can see that our future is very bright. These are young Nigerian boys and girls who have been able to put up projects, which we have seen today. “This is part of the activities of the Technology and Science Education Department in the ministry,” Adedigba said. The director said that the annual National Students’ Skills Competition had helped to bring out the ingenuity of the young students and if supported, would help them to be self-reliant instead of being job seekers. According to her, the skills and projects exhibited by the students of federal science and technical colleges across the country could compete favourably in this 21st century. She, however, solicited for increased funding of science and technical education by governments in order to equip laboratories and train teachers. “We have been able to showcase the ingenuity of our students; their ability to put things together; to think among themselves; and bring out projects that can fit into the 21st century. “What our students require is the support of the government. “The government has been willing and if ready to put in funds with our industries and corporate bodies, we can produce en masse and the products would generate income for the nation. “We can see that we have the potential here. All what we need is the ability to harness this potential and bring it to the fore and the country would be up there to be able to compete globally,’’ she said. Adedigba said that the national competition had helped in assessing the quality of routine teaching in Federal Science and Technical Colleges and created opportunity for public and private organisations to support the competition. Also the Director, Press and Public Relations of the Federal Ministry of Education, Mr Idang Alibi, said the Federal Government was ready to improve on vocational and technical education to enhance the economy. Alibi said that the graduates of technical colleges in the country were trained to come out and be job creators and to add value to the economy. He said that government was doing everything possible to improve on education infrastructure by putting standard facilities and equipment in the laboratories. “Few days ago, the Minister for Education said that we need about N2 trillion to address the challenges we have in education but as it is not available, they are making efforts. “They are renovating some of the schools, especially the technical schools;  putting facilities and equipment so that they can produce people to be job creators, Alibi said. NAN reports that the theme of the 5th Annual National Students Skills Competition is “Skills for Global Competitiveness’’.