By Kristin Wesley-Sheridan Well, this is a little backwards. I used to work with this guy whom we will call Adam (not even close to his real name). He was nice and flirty, but he was married so I wasn’t interested. I had quit that job. About a year later, I got a call from Adam. He told me he had kept the company contact list from when I worked there and decided to call me to let me know that his divorce was final and he wanted me to go out with him. He had been sitting on my number, waiting for the right time to call. I was so flattered that I agreed to go out with him. We met at a restaurant up the street from my house and we had dinner and drinks. We went out a few more times and I eventually went back to his house. It was a cute house that he was renting from a friend until he found one that he wanted to purchase. We ended up dating and I spent many nights at his house and he mine. We had been together close to two years when he started cancelling dates because his daughter was becoming rather wild and needed supervision. I started suspecting something weird was up as he was becoming rather distant towards me. When we did spend the night with each other, it was at my house. He came up with a plethora of excuses as to why I can’t come to his house. The plumbing was bad, he was tired, the kids were there and wanted dad’s attention. The sex had become rather mechanical, that is when we had sex. I had never met his kids. That was weird. We stopped going out to eat. He acted like he didn’t want to be seen with me in public. I felt like something was up and that I was being replaced by another woman. I was going to confront him. It turns out, that I didn’t have to confront him. One morning I was leaving for work when a blue pick up pulled in my driveway behind my car. A woman got out and asked me if I was Kristin. I said yes and asked her how she knew me and what she wanted. Her response: “I am Adam’s wife. I want you to stop fucking my husband.” I was blown away. I felt like I wanted to vomit right there. I was shocked and so crushed. I invited her in. I called my boss and said that I was sick with a stomach bug. I made coffee and we sat down and talked. I explained to her that Adam had told me that he was divorced. I showed her the emails. She was just as hurt and gut punched as I was. He had never gotten divorced. He knew that I wouldn’t date him otherwise. The reason that I couldn’t go to his house anymore was because he sold it and moved back in with his wife after they got counseling. I thought he had another woman and it turned out that I was the other woman. He had never rented the house from a friend. It was his mom’s house. She willed it to him when she died. His wife thought that he was renovating it so they could lease it out and use it as an investment. I called him and told him that his wife showed up at my house. Before I could say another word, he hung up on me. I have no idea what came of him and don’t care. Source: Quora