By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja
(Sundiata Post) – As the first five-year term of the Godwin Emefiele winds up
in June, there are signs that he may not enjoy re-appointment by President
Muhammadu Buhari. Emefiele’s
tenure as the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has not been with challenges
and policy inconsistencies and summersault. He will be remembered as a CBN
governor under whose tenure Nigeria drifted from the fastest growing economy to
the “Poverty Capital of the World”. It was also during his regime that the
country operated about five exchange rate regimes. To this
extent therefore, Nigeria’s central bank governor for the next five years will
have to balance fighting inflation and propping up the currency against
pressure to boost an economy that’s expanding slower than emerging-market
peers. But with
less than a month to go, the top post has also been linked to the regulator’s
most senior female official and other potential candidates at institutional and
development banks. Below are
some of the possible candidates to oversee monetary policy in Africa’s
most-populous nation and largest oil producer. That is, unless President
Muhammadu Buhari elects a governor that markets didn’t expect, as his
predecessor did five years ago in Emefiele. Aishah
Ahmad
Ahmad was appointed by Buhari as deputy governor in March 2018 and oversees
financial-systems stability. Her banking experience, at the former Diamond Bank
Plc, Zenith Bank Plc and Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc, may be welcomed by business. At
the January Monetary Policy Committee meeting, she called for increased lending
to small- and medium-sized enterprises. If picked for the post, Ahmad would be
the first permanent female governor. Ahmed Kuru
Kuru heads the Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria which was set up by the West
African nation to buy bad debt following a banking crisis in 2009. AMCON’s
books expanded rapidly during Kuru’s tenure as non-performing loans spiked after
the economy contracted in 2016. If appointed, Kuru could boost the central
bank’s focus on banking reforms and strengthening the financial sector. Mansur
Muhtar
Muhtar is a former Nigerian finance minister and was director-general of the
nation’s Debt Management Office from 2003 until 2007. Currently a vice
president at the Saudi Arabia-based Islamic Development Bank, he’s also served
as executive director on the board of the World Bank, as co-chairman of the
United Nations Inter-Governmental Committee of Experts on Sustainable
Development Finance, and executive director at the African Development Bank. However, President Muhammadu Buhari may spring a surprise and go out of the above three candidates as has been his pattern, to appoint “past master” and presumed “economic expert” to step into the position of the CBN boss. Recall that the President abandoned senior officers in Customs and  appointed Col Alli (rtd) as the Comptroller General of Custom. Source: Guardian