By Stella Kabruk  Kaduna – The Kaduna State Ministry of Health and Human Services on Friday said it had concluded plans for the conduct of maternal Newborn and Child health week  on May 27. The state Commissioner for Health, Dr Paul Dogo disclosed this during
a news conference in Kaduna, saying celebration of the week  would be
in collaboration with development partners through the Primary
Healthcare Development Agency. According to Dogo, the week is scheduled to run from May 27 to May 31
and that interventions will be provided in 1, 212 health facilities in
the 23 local government areas of the state. “This is an improvement over the previous implementation that took place in only 510 health facilities. “The adoption and implementation of the MNCH week is to address the
high maternal, newborn and child mortality rates, and improve the
nutrition status of the pregnant women and children,’’ he said. He said the week would feature HIV/Aids counselling and testing to eliminate mother to child transmission of HIV. Dogo added that the week would also looked into child birth spacing
to improve on the contraceptive prevalence rate in the state which had
been integrated in the package of implementation. “It is evident that the 16 rounds of MNCH weeks implemented so far in
Kaduna state have shown some improvement in the lives of children and
mother’s in the state,’’ he said. He added that in order to continue to strive for better health
indices, the MNCH week was still considered to be used regularly in
deliberate effort to target both mother and child as inseparable pair. “The week is set aside to deliver a package of high impact, low-cost
preventive and curative services designed to improve maternal health and
Child survival through facility based interventions and outreach
services. “These high impact interventions are targeted at children less than
five years, pregnant women, breast feeding mother’s and women of
reproductive age in conformity with the continuum of care approach. He said the interventions to be delivered during the week include
immunisation, vitamin A supplementation, de-worming of children,
screening for malnutrition, birth registration and health promotion. The commissioner called on parents, pregnant women, caregivers to
make good use of the week to uptake the interventions with a view to
achieving excellent health for women and children. He also called on traditional rulers, religious leaders and
stakeholders to educate their followers on the importance of the week so
as to achieve the desire result. “Healthcare givers participating in the week should also be committed and selfless to ensure a successful outing,’’ he added.