By Hussaina Yakubu Kubau – Some parents in Kubau, Kaduna State have called for support to rehabilitate Unguwan Diri Primary School which has virtually collapsed, leaving over 700 pupils to study in the open. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the school had six
classrooms and a staff room all of which had  no roof or furniture,
forcing pupils to sit on the floor and take lessons under the sun. Already, two of the classrooms had  caved in as  parents make frantic efforts to save the school. Alhaji Sale Danjuma, Chairman of the school’s Management Committee,
said many children in the area were not enrolled in school due to
inadequate space. According to him, the school was initially built by the community
before it was taken over by the state Universal Basic Education Board. “We lack enough schools in our community, so 12 years ago, we as
parents collectively agreed to help ourselves by building this school
from mud for our children since our cries to goverment to provide us
with one turned on deaf ears. “After building the classrooms, we approached the Council Chairman as
at then and pleaded with him to provide teachers who can  tutor our
children. “The chairman appreciated our efforts and then set up a committee
that transformed it into a UBE school. We were provided with five
teachers and we got five volunteers from amongst our children to teach
there, ” he said. Danjuma said the school began with a few children but now had about 738 students. “These pupils have out numbered the classrooms, so we agreed that the
younger children should be taught outside the classes on the mats while
those at the senior primary should remain in the classrooms. “As you can see, even those tutored in the classes that lack roofs suffer from sun burns. “We are forced to send children home once it starts raining. Even
their teachers sit under the hot sun to carry out their duties and do
their lesson notes while other learning materials are kept in my house. “We have graduated several set of pupils who are also doing well in secondary schools. “We cannot allow the situation to deter us as parents because formal
education is very important, hence we tasked ourselves and also sought
for donations to rehabilitate the school,” he said. Danjuma disclosed that the community had raised N400, 000 for the
rehabilitation of the primary school before the rainy season commenced
fully, but said the amount was grossly inadequate to effect full repairs
of the school. He therefore called on the state and local goverments to come to
their aid and provide them better structure with chairs, tables and
learning materials. “Our major concern is how to roof the classes before rainfall becomes
consistent. We have received donation of N400,000 for the roofing but
it will not be enough, we need goverment and other neccessary
stakeholders to come to our aid,” he added. Meanwhile, a parent in the community, Ibrahim Kufaina said apart from
the primary school, the community also required additional secondary
school as the only Junior Secondary school was inadequate to accommodate
growing number of students. “We have just the JSS Tafiyau at Panbeguwa ward. Students treck distances of between 2-4 kilometers to attend the school. “The school needs repairs and it is filled beyond capacity. Children
come from as far as Unguwan Madaki, Tudun Amawa, Unguwan Kakale and
Unguwan Barde”. NAN reports that other schools visited, though in better condition,
lacked desks and chairs, toilets, water and learning materials. The District Head of Kubau, the Sarkin Dajin Zazzau, Alhaji Shehu
Umar, advised the goverment to involve traditional rulers while
commencing community projects including, schools for proper monitoring
and tracking of how funds were expended. “In most situations, we only hear about the projects from people in
the community. Some of these contractors execute substandard works which
do not last. “But If we are involved and co-opted in the SBMC programs, we will
ensure they execute befitting buildings that will benefit us. After all,
it is our community so we must ensure we get the best and also assign
people to ensure its maintenance,” he said. Umar assured that as leaders, they would continue to encourage
parents to send their children to school no matter their socio-economic
condition. He said they also discouraged early marriage and hawking, especially
amongst the girl child by enforcing children’s enrolment in schools. “Though this goverment accords priority to education in the state,
but more needs to be done as the demand for school enrolment is getting
higher but the facilities are not enough or available to accommodate
them. “Hence, we insist that we should be notified of any ongoing projects
in our community so as to safeguard it and ensure funds allocated to the
projects are properly spent,” he said. When contacted, the Permanent member, Kaduna State Universal Basic
Education Board, Shehu Sani, said government was  aware of the situation
of primary schools in the state and doing its best to fix them. According to him,  at the inception of this administration in 2015,
we met a terrible state of decay in the education sector hence the
declaration of state of emergency in the sector by the governor. He explained that goverment was doing its  best to tackle the
situation but that, it had to be gradual due to financial constraints. “Goverment commenced renovations and construction of schools across
the state so as to improve the sector for the benefit of the masses. “What is worrisome is that rainy season is approaching and the wind
is destroying a lot of buildings. We are awaiting reports on when to
continue work in schools. “We therefore call on all communities to put more efforts to prevent
the wind from destroying roofs of schools sited in their communities,”
Sani said. He explained that the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency had
been mandated to supply water and toilet facility needs of all public
schools in the state. Meanwhile, in 2018, the Resource Center For Human Rights and Civic
Education (CHRICED) undertook a baseline survey to ascertain how UBE
system was fairing with respect to its core mandate in Kauru, Kubau and
Zaria LGAs of Kaduna State. Ibrahim Zikirullah, CHRICED Director-General, said the survey was to
also ascertain the level of community participation in tracking
government activities to enhance accountability. He explained that, despite the enactment of a legislation to ensure
all children of school age in Nigeria acquired basic education, the UBE
system continued  to fail millions of such children who ideally should
be benefitting from a well run public education system aimed at molding
them for roles as citizens. “The situation is worrisome because the goal UBE is expected to
achieve in banishing illietracy, tackling poverty and contributing to
building citizens is almost defeated,”  Zikirullahi stressed. He explained that the baseline survey was aimed at providing research
based knowledge on the status of the UBE funded projects and to also
uncover the usage of funds for the programme. “The risks of corruption have to be removed because it will be a
story of lost opportunity if monies meant for children’s education end
up in private pockets. “Also, for the security of the society and national development, it
is imperative to understand the state of things as a prelude to tracking
resources being expended on  UBE projects,” he said. Zikirullahi said the survey by CHRICED would help citizens and
communities understand thier rights and responsibilities with respect to
how the UBE funds are expended as the future of millions of Nigerian
children depended on the UBE system. “The UBE system is very important due to the foundational role it
played in preparing citizens become responsible with skills and
competences to contribute to national development,” he said.