By
Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiarta Post)  – The
People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has said that President Muhammadu Buhari’s
resort to blame game and false performance claims, in his media interview, has further
confirmed that the last four years of his administration smacks of failure and
incompetence. The party also indicted President Buhari for not using his
orchestrated interview to give account for the trillions stolen under his watch
in the last four years. The National Publicity Secretary of the party, Kola Ologbondiyan
disclosed this on Tuesday in a statement sent to Sundiata Post. The PDP noted that it was an internationally accepted position
that all critical sectors in our country performed abysmally in the last four
years because of the incompetence of President Buhari’s administration, adding
that it was unfortunate that instead of accepting responsibility for the
failures of his administration, Mr. President is looking for scapegoats where
there are none. According to the party, ”It is for this reason that the PDP
presented a presidential candidate and deputy with strong knowledge of the
economy and social order in order to rescue our nation from the dire straits
into which she had been thrown due to poor leadership in the last four years. The PDP also observed that President Buhari’s diatribe against
the National Assembly and its elected leadership further confirms his disdain
for constitutional democracy, rule of law and the Principle of Separation of
powers as entrenched in our constitution. Mr President’s personal attacks on the Senate President, Bukola
Saraki and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, were
totally uncalled for and speak volumes on his disposition about democracy. Moreover, President Buhari should end his showboating on the war
against corruption. He must admit that he failed because his
administration, which swims in ocean of corruption, cannot fight corruption.
This is an administration which thrives in concealment; under which over N14
trillion belonging to Nigerians have been frittered by officials, who have not
been investigated or prosecuted. The party said President Buhari also failed as a
Commander-in-Chief and lamented the escalation of insurgency, bloodletting,
kidnapping and other forms of violent acts in various parts of our nation under
his administration. Furthermore, it is disappointing that Mr. President has no
soothing words for millions of compatriots who have been subjected to the worst
form of economic and social misery under his incompetent and corrupt
administration The party however urges Nigerians not to despair but continue in
their determination and prayers to retrieve the stolen Presidential mandate at
the tribunal so that our nation can have a purposeful government that will be
truly alive to its responsibility to the people.