By Funmilola Gboteku Lagos – Jumia Food Marketplace, an online food delivery platform, says it has partnered with Pizza Hut, a multinational brand, to boost operational performance and last mile delivery in Nigeria. Mr Guy Futi, Managing Director of Jumia Food Marketplace, made this disclosure at a news conference on Thursday at Pizza Hut, Ikoyi, Lagos. NAN reports that Pizza Hut Nigeria is operated locally by Marathon Restaurants Africa, a franchisee of Yum Restaurants International. Pizza Hut is the world’s largest pizza chain with approximately 17,000 in over 100 countries worldwide. The company has locations in Lekki, Ikoyi and Ikeja City Mall. Futi said that as the premier food delivery business in Nigeria, they were opening up their platform to enable customers to order pizza from Pizza Hut while ensuring that it is delivered at record time. ”Currently, our average delivery time is 42 minutes, which is the quickest in Nigeria. ”We are reinforcing our operations to further cut our average delivery time to guarantee that both food and pizza are delivered at best times to our customers while not compromising quality,” he said. Futi noted that the partnership was also aimed at providing strategic capabilities for Pizza Hut to expand within Nigeria. The managing director added that Jumia Food would continue to partner with more food vendors as it was necessary for the growth of the company. Also speaking, Tony Ozanne, Chief Executive Officer of Marathon Restaurant Africa, operating Pizza Hut in Nigeria, Tony Ozanne, explained that as a recent entrant into the Nigerian market, they conducted extensive research to identify key players in the market. Ozanne said that their research identified Jumia Food Marketplace as a key player in the market and decided to partner with them. ”Jumia’s Food marketplace has the platform and the customers. We felt that since we are new in Nigeria, we can ride on their back to get the traction we want. ”As from today, you can either walk into our three locations in Lagos Ikoyi, Ikeja City Mall and Lekki to buy Pizza or take the convenient step by ordering on Jumia’s Food marketplace,” he said. On expansion plans in Nigeria, Ozanne said that in the next five years, they were hoping to expand to Abuja, Port Harcourt, Ibadan and also open more outlets in Lagos. (NAN)