Moscow – A global deal on oil production led by Russia and Saudi Arabia could be extended to the end of 2019, Saudi Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih told RIA news agency on Tuesday, without specifying whether or how much output levels could change. The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Russia and other
producers, an alliance known as OPEC+, agreed late last year to cut
output by 1.2 million barrels per day in an effort to boost oil prices. They meet on June 25 to June 26 to decide whether to extend the pact. Earlier in April, Moscow signaled OPEC and its allies could raise oil
output from June because of improving market conditions and falling
stockpiles. “We will look at (global oil) inventories – are they higher or lower
than the normal level and we will adjust the production level
accordingly. Based on what I see now … I am eager to say there will be
some kind of agreement,” Falih told Russia’s RIA. “It may remain the same, or could change up or down, I don’t know.” One of the key players on Moscow’s policy toward OPEC is Igor Sechin, head of Russian state oil company Rosneft. Sechin, an ally of President Vladimir Putin, says Russia is losing
market share to the United States, which is not participating in
production cuts and has boosted output to record levels of some 12
million bpd. Last week, Sechin signaled Russia would not help replace Iranian oil
on the market after the expiration of waivers on U.S. sanctions against
Tehran’s crude exports. Also last week, U.S. President Donald Trump told reporters he had
called OPEC and told the group to lower oil prices, without specifying
to whom he spoke or whether he was referring to previous discussions
with OPEC officials. Falih, commenting on Trump’s statement, told RIA that Saudi Arabia
was ready to meet consumer demand after the waivers expire, including by
replacing Iranian oil with Saudi supplies. But Riyadh will not voluntarily exceed output levels set by the global deal, Falih said. “I confirm our commitment to meet all these requests (to replace
Iranian oil). But at the same time, we will do this remaining part of
the OPEC+ deal, we will stick to it. We do not need to voluntarily
exceed the limits set,” he said. Iranian exports were not significant, Falih said. “The only indicator I have is consumers’ demand for Saudi oil … These
figures are moderate at the moment, the demand is healthy. There is
nothing to worry about… There is no shortage on the (global oil)
market,” Falih said. He said Saudi oil production until the end of May would be below the
level set in the global deal: “significantly less” than 10 million bpd,
with exports below 7 million bpd next month. “We are comfortable with the overall situation on the (global oil)
market: it is healthy, it is well-supplied, nothing to worry about,”
Falih told RIA.