Self-acclaimed investigative journalist, Kemi Omololu-Olunloyo, reacts to the video in which actress Iyabo Ojo was crying as she revealed how her ex-husband broke her heart on their wedding night saying he didn’t love her but only got married to her because she was pregnant. Gistvic Reports. Kemi said Iyabo Ojo was crying crocodile tears reflecting on her crashed marriage and her tears just began. She wrote: “@iyaboojofespris #IyaboOjo crying crocodile tears reflecting on her crashed marriage. Like I said on pastor Ibiyeomie’s pulpit, whoever sent me that letter that sent me to prison, God will deal with them mercilessly. Your tears just began. Apologise to Pastor Ibiyeomie and Kemi Olunloyo for pitching an innocent pastor against an innocent Journalist all because you were fighting Vivian Metchie and your PA who wrote the fake letter against you substituting Apostle Suleiman’s name for Ibiyeomie’s name. You and Gbeminiyi Adegbola will not make heaven for sending me to prison for 6 mos and ruining my name Amen! I will release the letter in detail in my book which your PA also describes your daughter Prisca as a “runs girl in training.” Thank u Apostle Suleiman for the text message contacting me, Pastor Ibiyeomie who prayed for me and Toronto Police Officer CM who tracked the instagram account that sent it and Truecaller in Sweden who exposed the SIM owner Iyabo Ojo Pinkies group. Flag this post too. It is a documentary and an upcoming book. Your legal papers and lies will all be in there. All you could have done is apologise someone trying to destroy you used other ppl to do it. “ Everyone has a story, everyone's life is a story. I decided to share a bit with you, to strengthen and to encourage someone out there. We’re all capable of doing amazing things…. but whenever you find yourself doubting how far you can go, just remember how far you have come. ……………….. never stop in your storm Isaiah 41:10 So do not fear, for I am with you; do not be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you and help you; I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. A post shared by  Iyabo Ojo / Boss Lady (@iyaboojofespris) on May 12, 2019 at 7:31am PDT Source