By Joy Kaka Abuja – Sgt. Alufailu Peter told an FCT High Court that he processed the crime scene where where a 32-year-old woman, Rukayat Abdulkareem, allegedly stabbed a 17-year-0ld son of her husband’s alleged lover, to death. NAN reports that the police charged Abdulkareem, with alleged murder of a 200 level student of the University of Abuja. Peter who was led in evidence by the Prosecution Counsel, Noel Omeji, said” “I was on night duty at the Kubwa Division, where a case of culpable homicide was reported at the station on Jan. 11, 2018. ” I was detailed to investigate. I moved the Patrol Team to the crime scene at Kubwa village, Abuja where the deceased’s body was lying on a bed. I took pictures of the remains. “I also received a call that the defendant was at a police outpost close to me so i went there and took her to the station. ” The defendant’s statement was recorded and her photograph was taken. I also noticed that the defendant had a bleeding nose, ” he said. Peter said in the statement, the defendant stated that she came to Abuja from Kaduna Road in search of her husband in Kubwa and in the process had an issue with the deceased. He said the deceased was the son of the woman the defendant’s husband was with. He added that the defendant said she fought with the deceased but did not stab him. ” After her statement was taken, i went back to the crime scene and discovered a knife stained with blood. The prosecutor however asked Peter of the condition of the camera he used in taking pictures at the crime scene. Peter responded by saying the Cannon camera he used in taking pictures of the deceased’s body, the deceased’s sister with a hand injury and the defendant is in good condition till date. The said pictures were tendered and marked as Exhibit 4. After listening to the testimony, Justice Kezziah Ogbonnaya, adjourned the case until May 23 for continuation of trial. NAN reports that the police alleged that the defendant reportedly left her matrimonial home at Gauraka town, and trailed her husband, Usman, to his lover’s house at Gbazango Pipeline, Kubwa, at about 10 p.m.