By Awayi Kuje Lafia, – Nasarawa State Governor-elect, Abdullahi Sule, has assured stakeholders in the state that he will work with competent people for the peace, progress and development of the state, after inauguration on May 29. Sule made this known on Tuesday while receiving a delegation of Eggon nation in Lafia. He said that working with competent
and experienced people would not only ensure progress and development of
the state but would also take the state to the next level of
development. The governor-elect said that his
administration would also give adequate attention to the security of
lives and property, considering the importance of peace to societal
development. He said that peace is panacea to the
development of any society, hence the need for his administration’s
plan to give peace a topmost priority. “We must tackle and address security together because peace is a panacea to societal development. “No society would achieve meaningful progress in a society without peace and unity, ’’ he said. Sule commended Eggon delegation for
identifying with him over his victory at the governorship poll and gave
an assurance that he would not fail in his responsibilities. He promised to operate an open-door policy as well as carry everybody along irrespective of affiliations. The governor-elect called on the
people of the state to support the APC-led government at both the
Federal and State levels in order to enjoy more dividends of democracy. He urged the people of the state to live in peace and tolerate another irrespective of their affiliations. Earlier, Mr Yakubu Agyo, the leader
of the delegation, who is the Secretary, Eggon Council of Elders, said
that the visit was to congratulate Sule on his victory at the
Governorship poll. He assured the govenor-elect of their support to enable him succeed. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)
reports that the Eggon nation delegation included: Mary Enwongulu, the
State Commissioner for Commerce; Dr Dominic Bako, the state’s former
Commissioner for Finance; and Jacob Kudu, former Special Assistant to
Gov. Umaru Al-Makura. Others were: Mr Wilberforce Alaku,
the President, Eggon Cultural and Development Association (ECDA); Mr
Daniel Ayumbaga, the President, Eggon Youth Movement; and Monday Nanza,
former Administrator, Akun Development Area, among others.