By Esenvosa Izah Lagos – The Founder of Well-being Foundation Africa, an NGO, Mrs Toyin Saraki, on Wednesday called for synchronised knowledge, policies and actions among stakeholders for a whole-systems approach to achieving health for all. She made the call at the ongoing 72nd World Health Assembly in Geneva, Switzerland. Saraki was speaking at a symposium organised by another NGO,
Partnership for Maternal, Newborn and Child Health (PMNCH) in
partnership with the World Bank. A whole-systems approach is a strategic integrate approach to approach planning and delivering services in the planning and delivering services in the UK which, on a local level, encompasses local health and social service provision and any other service that impacts on such care. The theme of the symposium is, “Call to Action on Women’s, Children’s
and Adolescents’ Health and Well-being in Humanitarian and Fragile
Settings”. “Given that more than two billion people live under the threat of
conflict and emergencies of diverse and complex natures, and 69 million
people have been displaced by humanitarian crises; “We need bold steps to enhance coordination and bring together
synchronised knowledge, policies and actions for a whole-system approach
to achieving health for all, especially in protracted emergencies and
in the humanitarian-development nexus. “That is why I so strongly support this initiative and call to action
from PMNCH, which is best placed to bring us all together from every
sector, region, country and background; “To remove the inefficiencies, identify and address gaps of capacity and delivery in every sense,” she said. The NGO’s founder said that achieving universal health coverage would require a spectrum of interventions and initiatives. According to her, this includes water, sanitation and hygiene
standards in healthcare facilities; breastfeeding education and training
for healthcare workers. Saraki said: “In a country as large as Nigeria, resilience throughout
the whole nation’s system is necessary if we are going to be able to
tackle critical health emergencies in fragile settings, for example in
the north-east. “That is why a strengthened primary health care system is imperative
as the foundation and bedrock of achieving health for all and should be a
focal point for investment. “I call on all partners and stakeholders to rally behind PMNCH, to
support this initiative and most importantly commit to action which will
make health for all a reality. “Together we can make sure that no one is left behind.