By Adekunle Williams and Solomon Asowata Lagos – The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) says Nigerian carriers need to partner with other airlines both within and outside the country to sustain and enhance their operations. Mr Sam Adurogboye, General Manager, Public Relations, NCAA, gave the
advice on Thursday in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)
in Lagos. Adurogboye noted that partnership was vital to the aviation business,
adding that most of the big players in the industry had strategic
alliances with other airlines. He also debunked the claim that Nigerian airlines were paying one of the highest aviation charges in the world. “That is not true. Even in Benin Republic here, the charges that are
there, we don’t have half of it. The operators should be sincere because
there is no place where they are not paying charges. “There is no airline anywhere in the world that is not facing
challenges. It is the economic challenges that are forcing airlines all
over the world to form alliances. “The British Airways, the Air France, Lufthansa, Delta and other mega
airlines all belong to one alliance or the other because they have
discovered that the operating environment is tough. “So they form alliances and rely on each other. You don’t have to fly
to all the routes, but you hand over your passengers to your partners
to carry them to their destinations,” Adurogboye said. According to him, Nigerian airlines have not been able to key into
these partnerships despite the encouragement being given to them by the
NCAA. “It was the NCAA that paid N10 million to the International Air
Transport Association (IATA) some years back to conduct a gap analysis
for five Nigerian carriers so that they will begin to audit them in the
IATA Operational Safety Audit (IOSA). “The NCAA used its own resources to make that payment to encourage
the airlines to have IOSA Certificates so that they can belong to the
IATA Clearing House. “This will make the foreign airlines to have confidence in their
safety and capacity, but there are some other things that they need to
do.” He maintained that Nigerian airlines must work on their passenger customer care and route integrity. “No British Airways, No Air France nor Lufthansa is going to enter
into an alliance with an airline that will leave their passengers
stranded in Lagos or in Abuja. “The airlines must learn to adhere to their fixed schedules because
these foreign operators are monitoring and will not want anything that
will embarrass passengers holding their tickets. ” Adurogboye noted that some Nigerian airlines who ventured into
international operations failed to adhere to the prerequisite business
standards which led to their predicaments. According to him, some accumulated huge debts to fuel vendors,
airport operators and other service providers which cannot be blamed on
lack of support from the NCAA and the Nigerian government. “Before embarking on international operations, the airline ought
carry out comprehensive feasibility studies to guide them, but
unfortunately, some even start before realising that they are supposed
to pay their workers international salary. “So, they cannot blame the NCAA or the government for their inability
to sustain their operations, because they failed to adhere to the
business principle, ” he stressed. Adurogboye said the duty of the NCAA was to ensure that aircraft used
for operations by airlines were airworthy to ensure the safety of the
Nigerian airspace, noting that the regulatory agency had been carrying
out this duty diligently.