By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Movement for the Actualization of the
Sovereign
State of Biafra (MASSOB) has commended former President Olusegun Obasanjo for
his courage in revealing the alleged plan of President Buhari to use Boko Haram
and ISIS to actualize the agenda of Islamization and fulanization of Nigeria. The group made this known on Tuesday in a statement signed by the
Director of Information, Mr. Edeson Samuel and made available to newsmen in
Abakaliki, capital of Ebonyi State. The statement
read, “Chief Obasanjo should not be crucified or condemned because he exposed
the intended evil President Muhammad Buhari led Federal government is planning
to unleash on people of southern and middle belt regions of Nigeria. “MASSOB have
conferred that the likes of Loretta Onochie and Alhaji Lai Mohammed have
mortgaged their consciences for their selfish desires, presenting falsehoods to
the citizens because they want to be relevant to the President Buhari’s
administration. “MASSOB
commends Obasanjo for being courageous and eloquent in
revealing this unwanted truth, which the present government doesn’t
want to hear. “It will be recalled that MASSOB have earlier exposed this Islamization agenda
of President Muhammad Buhari in pursuit, projection and actualization of the
grand command of Othman Dan Fodio which is to islamize/fulanize this
geographical entity called Nigeria and destroy the entire southern Nigeria but
nobody believed us. “MASSOB has
gathered many secret plans by the northern political and religious leaders
against the southern region through Biafra Intelligence Agency (BIA). “In early
1960’s, the north through Tafawa Balewa and Ahmadu Bello used Chief Akintola to
destabilize the Western region, today they want to use Bola Tinubu to
destabilize the political structure of the Southern region. That was the recent
meeting of some northern leaders in Saudi Arabia. MASSOB which reiterated that there is no difference between Boko
Haram and Fulani herdsmen, stressed that the terrorist herdsmen were sent to go
and destroy the South and Middle belt while Boko Haram will carry their acts of
terrorism in the northeast. “That is why President 
Buhari can never declare Fulani herdsemen a terrorist movementor even to
condemn the killing of the innocent citizens by these foot soldiers of Islam
called Fulani herdsmen, the group alleged. Culled From Daily Post.