By Dorrow Green All you need is to know as minimum Forex basic information, There are some ways how you can do it: 1) Learn Forex by yourself, here are some quick tips: Download in Internet some Forex basic information, read it or watch videos about it. It’s not so many information, should be about 20-30 pages book, or 1-2 hours video on YouTube. It will take you about a week to understand all things – classic patterns, levels, channels, etc. These main things will start your trading process. Download Forex terminal open Demo account and make practice there. 1-2 weeks daily practice, you will understand Forex mechanism. Use only 1 currency pair, it will be faster for you to understand market. Don’t jump from one pair to another. Remember, if you are able to trade one currency pair – you will be able to trade all of them. If you will be trying to trade all currencies at once, you will slow down your success process. About Indicators, if you want to start trading quicker, just move indicators for next time. Use only candlestick charts and follow market, watch how it draws levels and patterns. It will help you to understand market pulsation. Follow money management, don’t trade with big lots, use low risks. Try to collect pips, but not amount of money you earn. Follow these recommendations and practice on Demo account, 2-3 months of daily trading and you will see results. Then you can move on real account and trade.. 2) If you already trader, but still unsuccessful, try to understand where you make mistakes and work on it, don’t repeat mistakes… Don’t try to find something new in Internet, it’s one of mistakes that traders do – can’t follow strategy rules and search for another strategy, and make same mistakes.. Work on one strategy and follow it rules. I will give you a simple strategy that can bring you constant profit: It is not difficult, but it brings profit in 80-90% situations. If you are unsuccessful trader, and know a lot about Forex, so you will understand these three steps quickly. If you want to go deeper and get more signals for better trading, you can check my Forex Price Action Strategy, or go to my Profileand you can find all material there. P.S. I don’t use indicators in my trading, I removed them after I understand that they didn’t help me. I spend too much time on indicators, so I don’t recommend it to beginner traders. Source: Quora