By Nathan Nwakamma Yenagoa – Management of an oil exploration company, Aiteo Eastern Exploration and Production Company, on Monday, confirmed that it had commenced discussions with the aggrieved members of Nembe community in Bayelsa. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that hundreds of protesting
Nembe indigents had on Sunday blocked the entrance gate of the Nembe
Logistics base and prevented its staff from gaining access to the Nembe
Creek oilfield over allegations of neglect of social obligations by the
oil company. Mr Oweilaemi Peretubo, President of the Ijaw Youths Council (IYC),
alleged that the oil firm had denied members of the host community of
employment opportunities and other social amenities. He alleged that Aiteo, which acquired the oil block from Shell in
2015, had not lived to its corporate social responsibility obligations. But Aiteo, which denied the allegation, noted that it had commenced discussion with representatives of the community. A statement by the Aiteo’s spokesman, Mr Ndiana Mathew, made
available to NAN on Monday in Yenagoa,  dismissed the allegations, but
said that the oil firm was committed to meeting its social obligations
to the hosts community. Mathew, who confirmed that the protesters had vacated the company’s
facility, however, regretted their action when the oil firm was already
in discussions with the leaders of the communities at various levels. He restated the commitment of the oil firm to the development of its
host communities and urged the protesters to be patient as the oil firm
was already addressing the development needs of Nembe people in a
holistic manner. According to him, following protracted engagement with them, they
agreed to disband, while leaving behind representatives to present their
demands to the company. “It is instructive that this development is coinciding with the resumption of operations of the NCTL. .“These disturbances disrupt our operations and lead to production
deferment which affects not just the company but revenues accruing to
the government and people of Nigeria.“ “Aiteo reiterates its commitment to continuing to work with her host communities to achieve an amicable relationship. “Moreover, the Nembe Community provides most of the supply, logistics and security contracts going into our local operations. “Apart from encouraging community participation in this manner, the
company has, in addition, continued to provide considerable amenities
and services directly to the community in a most beneficial and
impactful way. .“Hence, we remain open and are committed to constructive dialogue for the development of both the nation and the community. “It takes several layers of engagement to get key deliverables to the
community as the asset is operated under a joint venture with NNPC,
therefore, key decisions must be made upon due consultation with all
stakeholders,” Aiteo stated. NAN recalls that Aiteo had on Friday resumed oil exports from the 97
kilometer Nembe Creek Trunk Line following repairs of the vandalized
pipeline by suspected oil thieves on April 21. The breach on the 150,000 barrels per day Nembe-Bonny export line had
compelled Aiteo to declare ‘Force Majeure’ on oil exports from the
facility. However, the Force Majeure was lifted on May 3, after the leak was fixed and the facility resumed normal operations. Force Majeure is a legal clause that absolves a firm from liabilities
from failure to meet contractual obligations due to circumstances
outside its control.