A hero dog saved a newborn baby after leading his owner to the boy who had been buried alive in the dirt by his teenage mother. The pooch called Ping Pong was seen scratching at earth alongside a farmer’s field in Korat, north eastern Thailand, on Wednesday morning. Ping Pong’s owner Usa Nisaika, 41, went over to look and noticed the infant’s tiny leg poking up from the earth. He frantically dug up the 5.2lbs baby and rushed him to hospital where he was found not to have suffered any serious injury. murder. Usa said his dog – which only has three working legs having been hit by a car when he was younger – was a ‘hero’. He said: ‘I have had Ping Pong since he was born and he has always been very loyal and obedient. ‘When he was younger a car hit him and his back leg was injured. He cannot use it but he still helps me when I’m herding cows. ‘Everybody in the village is amazed by what he has done now. He is a hero because he saved the life of the baby.’ Police began investigating and interviewed local residents. None of them knew any pregnant women in the area but a shopkeeper said that a teenage girl had recently bought an unusually large amount of sanitary towels. The teenager was arrested on Thursday and admitted giving birth to the baby boy. She told police that she buried him to try to hide the birth, because she was afraid that her parents would be angry. Officers have now kept the baby under supervision in hospital, but the girl’s parents have offered to take care of the infant. Nakhon Ratchasima governor Wichian Chantharanothai and Trairat Witthayanumart, the chief of the Chumpuang district, said they have visited the infant in hospital and he is healthy. Governor Wichian said: ‘The baby is recovering and he is healthy. His weight when he was born was 2.4kg. ‘The parent of the mother have offered to take care of the baby when he leaves hospital but that has not been agreed yet. ‘A team of police and government welfare workers need to consider the safety of the children.’ Police interviewed the teenager mother on suspicion of attempted murder but they are waiting for for her to be assessed for her mental health. Governor Wichian added: ‘Police officers are preparing to prosecute the mother but she is also a child and we must consider her mind and be professional. It is important that she is nurtured and treated fairly.’ Source: tori.ng