Abuja – The Yoruba Ronu Leadership Forum says Appeal Court’s declaration of Gov. Gboyega Oyetola as the winner of 2018 Osun governorship election reaffirms Osun voters position at the poll. The forum said this in a statement issued to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) by its Secretary-General, Mr Akin Malaolu, on Friday in Abuja. It noted that Oyetola’s actions after being sworn in as governor confirmed that he was the people’s choice. “The short period of Oyetola’s stay in office has shown that he has the energy and desire to bring about happiness and prosperity to the people of the state generally. “It is a well known fact that the confident steps taken so far have redirected his efforts at curbing profligacy. “His commitment to payment of salaries of workers at all levels, re-evaluation of ongoing projects to suit the needs of the people had endeared him to Nigerians and Osun people across sentiments. “Oyetola has started laying down, turning around and exceedingly leading the state to greater heights,” Malaolu said. The group urged the governor to be firm while facing the daunting task of governance with fairness, equity and justice at all times, which was in line with his party’s manifesto. “We congratulate the good people of Osun and urge all Yoruba Ronu and supporters to roll out their drums and partake in the celebration that enveloped the entire people of Osun,’’ he said. Malaolu added that the appellate court’s decision on the matter was commendable. “The latest Appeal Court judgment upholding the election of Gov. Oyetola did not come as a surprise to us. “It is in tandem with fairness and equity. We must congratulate the people of the state for the patience they exhibited throughout the period of their waiting,” he said. The organisation also urged the opposition to accept the verdict, congratulate Oyetola and join hands to further develop the state. NAN recalls that Oyetola was declared winner at the end of the election in 2018 after the bye election in some local governments. But PDP’s Sen. Ademola Adeleke candidate in the governorship poll challenged Oyetola’s victory at the tribunal and won. Oyetola also appealed the tribunal’s ruling at the appeal court and he won the ruling on Thursday. Meanwhile, the PDP said it would appeal the judgment at the Supreme Court to reclaim Adeleke’s mandate.