By Lizzy Okoji Abuja – The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) has called for more commitment of stakeholders and political will of government to combat statelessness. Mr Roger Hollo, Deputy Representative, UNHCR Nigeria, made the call
on Wednesday in Abuja at the opening of a two-day workshop on
“Statelessness and Nationality”  for stakeholders and focal persons of
Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). The workshop was organizsed by UNHCR in collaboration with the
National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced
Persons (NCFRMI). Hollo said the workshop aims at bringing relevant stakeholders
together to raise more awareness on the issue of statelessness and the
role they should play in combating it. Hollo, who commended Nigeria in the fight against statelessness, said
Nigeria was part of the countries that had taken the lead in the West
African sub-region. “At the end of the workshop, participants would realise that it does
not take much to fight statelessness but the commitment of stakeholders
and the political will of the government. “A lot of people were still unaware of statelessness as a phenomenon
and its consequences with a lot of people still asking so many questions
with little answers,“ he said. He said that in the course of the workshop, participants would be
equipped with the knowledge to define who a stateless person is, what
they face and what needs to be done to address the situation. Hollo said that that the UNHCR was counting on participants who are
focal points to utilise the knowledge gained from the workshop into
action in their respective sectors to combat statelessness. Also speaking, Dr Stephen Okon, Director Citizenship and Business,
Federal Ministry of Interior, said that it was the responsibility of
stakeholders to contribute to the fight against statelessness in their
respective MDAs. Okon said that being a new concept to many, the importance of understanding statelessness cannot be overemphasized. He said that there was a need for stakeholders to create more awareness on the issues and their roles in addressing the scourge. Okon said that to effectively the fight against statelessness,
stakeholders must demonstrate passion, interest and take it not just as a
role but a responsibility. “Though, we have a national focal point, all of us are focal persons in our respective MDAs. “To be selected as a focal person, you have been identified as one
who plays a key role in the fight against statelessness in the country. “The Workshop will help broaden your knowledge on the situation and
how best you can contribute to the global eradication campaign and fight
against statelessness. “Stock taken shows that a lot of persons unaware of the situation are
at risk of statelessness without them knowing, so the need for
increased campaigns,” Okon said. Okon said that just like counterpart countries in the sub-region, it
would be important to form a national network that would help drive and
effectively propagate the concept of statelessness. Participants at the workshop said they expect to gain more knowledge
on statelessness and the role they can play to join UNHCR in the fight
against statelessness. Speaking with NAN, Mr Dapo Akingbade, Assistant Ship Planning
Officer, National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), said that at the
end of the workshop important issues of statelessness would be tackled. “My expectation from this workshop is to know in-depth what is
leading to statelessness, though I have had an online course on
statelessness, I know a little about it. “This workshop will expose me more to the root causes and how to address those causes to be able to prevent statelessness. “More so, even people that are stateless, what are their rights and
privileges to enjoy life and to exhibit their human rights wherever they
are,“ he said.