Tokyo – Japan’s Emperor Akihito prayed to a Shinto sun goddess on Tuesday, starting a day of ceremonies to mark the end of a 30-year reign. Akihito marks the end of his reign to ease painful memories of World War Two and bring the monarchy closer to people. Akihito, 85, was the first monarch
to take the Chrysanthemum Throne under a post-war constitution that
defines the emperor as a symbol of the people without political power. His abdication is the first in 200 years. His father, Hirohito, in whose name
Japanese troops fought World War Two, was considered a living deity
until after Japan’s defeat in 1945, when he renounced his divinity. Akihito, together with Empress
Michiko, his wife of 60 years and the first commoner to marry an
imperial heir, carved out an active role as a symbol of reconciliation,
peace and democracy. “I think the emperor is loved by the
people. His image is one of encouraging the people, such as after
disasters, and being close to the people,’’ Morio Miyamoto, 48, said as
he waited near a train station in Tokyo. “I hope the next emperor will, like the Heisei emperor, be close to the people in the same way,” he said. Akihito, who has had treatment for
prostate cancer and heart surgery, said in a televised address in 2016
that he feared his age would make it hard for him to carry out his
duties fully. Akihito reported his abdication in
sanctuaries inside the Imperial Palace, including one honouring the sun
goddess Amaterasu Omikami, from whom mythology says the imperial line is
descended, and two others for departed emperors and Shinto gods. Video aired on NHK public TV showed
Akihito, wearing a dark orange traditional robe and black headdress,
walking slowly into the first sanctuary as a courtier in a white robe
walked behind holding the train and another carried a sword. Crown Prince Naruhito conducted a similar ceremony, NHK said. Japan’s Emperor Akihito and Empress
Michiko attend a ritual called Taiirei-Seiden-no-gi, a ceremony for the
Emperor’s abdication, at the Imperial Palace in Tokyo. Ahead of the ceremonies, Japanese onlookers and foreign tourists gathered outside the palace amid tight security. “I wanted to come to the Imperial
Palace as they (emperor and empress) are like the father and mother of
the country,” said Kimiyo Miyagawa, 68, a housewife from northern Japan
who came with her daughter to be near the palace. “I would like to tell them ‘Thank you so much for your hard work,” she said, “I’m full of gratitude.’’ The abdication will be marked by a
brief and relatively simple ceremony in the Imperial Palace’s
prestigious Matsu no ma, or Hall of Pine. About 300 people will attend and it will be broadcast live on television. Attendees at the afternoon
abdication ceremony will include Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, Empress
Michiko, Crown Prince Naruhito and Crown Princess Masako, as well as the
heads of both houses of parliament and Supreme Court justices. Imperial chamberlains will carry
state and privy seals into the room along with two of Japan’s “Three
Sacred Treasures’’ a sword and a jewel which together with a mirror are
symbols of the throne. They are said to originate in ancient mythology. Abe will announce the abdication and Akihito, wearing Western morning coat, will make his final remarks as emperor. Not everyone was excited by the imperial changeover. “It’s a normal day. That kind of
political stuff is irrelevant to us ordinary people,” said Masato Saito,
a 40-year-old construction worker. “As long as they make our lives easy
to live, that’s all I care.” U.S. President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania offered their “heartfelt appreciation” to the royal pair in a statement. Naruhito, 59, will inherit the throne in separate ceremonies on Wednesday. Naruhito, who studied at Oxford, is
likely to continue an active role and together with Harvard-educated
Masako give the monarchy a cosmopolitan tinge. Police have tightened security near
the Imperial Palace, a 115-hectare site that is home to the emperor and
empress in the heart of Tokyo. Media said several thousand police officers were being mobilised in the capital soon. Tuesday marks the last day of the Heisei imperial era, which began on Jan. 8, 1989, after Akihito inherited the throne. The era saw economic stagnation, natural disasters and rapid technological change. Akihito officially remains emperor until midnight, when the new Reiwa era, meaning “beautiful harmony’’, begins. Japanese traditionally refer to the
date by the era name, or “gengo”, a system originally imported from
China, on documents, calendars and coins but many people also use the
Western calendar.