By Perpetua Onuegbu Abuja – Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST) says its financial inclusion intervention is geared toward supporting the growth of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), contribute to poverty alleviation and reduce unemployment in the country. Mr Franklyn Alao, the General Manager, Corporate Communications, said this in a statement on Thursday in Abuja. Alao said that the organisation was committed to providing effective and reliable postal services to its esteemed customers,
in accordance with its operational statutory mandate. According to him, this has become imperative to bridge the divergent needs of the modern customer. He added that the notion that the organisation was abdicating its
core mandate to operate microfinance bank as alleged in some quarters
was misleading. He explained that “the microfinance bank being contemplated is an
initiative of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), in collaboration with
the
Bankers Committee and the Nigerian Incentive Risk System and Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL). “The Microfinance bank is not going to be managed by NIPOST, but by
an independent management which has no direct relations with NIPOST’s
operations. “The use of NIPOST outlets for the NIRSAL microfinance bank is an
initiative of the CBN in collaboration with the Bankers Committee and
NIPOST, ” he said. The general manager said that the objective was to bridge the
financial intervention gap between government and intended targets. He stressed that “NIPOST is, therefore, not floating a bank nor abdicating its core mandate.” Alao said that the micro finance banks created through the
collaboration would be accommodated in the post offices providing
services to the people,
while NIPOST rendered its own postal business. “NIPOST is leveraging on ICT to introduce innovative services
tailored to the needs of customers in line with international best
practices,
which are also in tandem with Universal Postal Union (UPU) guidelines. “These services include agency banking, e-commerce, Digital
Addressing System (DAS) and Address Verifications System (VAS), which
are real time address location solutions in Nigeria. “Talking about core business of NIPOST, it should be noted that apart
from mail and parcel, financial services has also been our mandate
right from inception. “The fact that post offices can be used to deepen financial inclusion
made CBN to grant the office Super Agency Licence to make banking
and other modern financial services available in every post office. “Such services are mostly rendered in areas where there are no banks,
and this happens to be the rural areas where 70 per cent of post
offices
are located.”