By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has
charged the Army and other security agencies to track down the political
mercenaries and thugs smuggled into our country by the All Progressives
Congress (APC) with which the ruling party unleashed violence on the nation to
facilitate its rigging of the 2019 general elections. The PDP also urges security agencies to compel the APC to
immediately disclose the identity and whereabouts of the mercenaries and their
traffickers to enable them (security agencies) to urgently flush the
mercenaries out and shield our nation and democracy from further security
threats. The party made the call in a statement signed by the National
Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan sent to Sundiata Post. According to the statement, “Nigerians can recall that the
PDP had raised the alarm when the APC, seeing that it cannot win in a free,
fair and credible election, compromised our territorial borders to bring in
political mercenaries from other countries to participate in their campaign
rallies, as well as assist them in perpetuating violence. “Nigerians can also recall how APC agents unbridled violence
on voters in Kano, Kaduna, Rivers, Kogi, Taraba, Adamawa and other states of
the federation to muscle votes for its candidates, particularly in the
Presidential election; and how the APC leadership stood in staunch defence of
the compromising of our territorial borders as well as the violence that characterized
the elections. This was in addition to apprehensions of possible plots by
the APC to use the thugs to cause confusion and derail our democratic process,
should they fail to rig the elections. “It is instructive to note that the APC had not been able to
state the whereabouts of these thugs after the elections, a development that
has raised fears that they had filtered deeper into our national territory and
population, given the escalation of banditry and associated acts of violence in
many of our states, including Zamfara, Borno, Yobe, Taraba, Kaduna, Katsina
among others, since after the elections, PDP said. The party therefore restated its demand for an investigation
into the alleged link between the APC and the ugly security situation in our
nation. Adding that this is particularly so as the APC is now overweighed by
public disapproval and opprobrium for rigging the election; and being faced
with huge legitimacy challenges ahead, can resort to all manner of shenanigans
just to divert public attention from its odious status. The PDP, as a law-abiding party, committed to the unity,
stability and sovereignty of our nation, as well as the deepening of our
democratic process stands with Nigerians in their refusal to be distracted by
the APC in the determination to get justice for our nation at the tribunals,
the statement said.