For decades, humanity has continued to grapple with a large amount of
social problems, ranging from poor health condition, hunger, deprivation
of basic amenities of life, and even in the case where these are
available; it is grossly inadequate and in short supply. Meanwhile,
international organizations and other human right institutions keep
churning out frightening figures of people experiencing one form of pain
or the other, with the slimmest chance of breaking even. While some of the aforesaid can be attributed to natural occurrences
beyond the power and control of man, others happened, owing to man’s
inhumanity towards his fellow man across the world. Daily, the media is
awash with stories mostly in the sub-Saharan Africa, even as Nigeria is
ranked among countries with poor human development index, as well as
unfavourable living condition. These unfortunate situations
have disadvantaged countless number of people as a host of others
struggle without result for survival in the phase of an uncertain, bleak
and despair future. This underscores why the well to do in the society
that nature smiled and is still smiling on should, by the benevolence of
God, ensure they replicate same and other vulnerable groups in the
society. No doubt, governments across all levels have been
carrying out her responsibility to her citizen but it is quite
unfortunate that these efforts have fallen short of addressing the many
social ills plaguing the human race. It is instructive to establish that
government alone cannot meet these needs. This is why privileged
individuals, corporate and non Governmental organizations, and more
importantly, religious bodies must form and sustain a formidable team,
with the view to checkmating this age long problem. The Holy
Bible enjoined us to care for the poor and the less privileged in the
society, as this is the essence of Christianity. For example, James 1:27
says “pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, to
visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction and to keep himself
unspotted from the world”. This is of immense importance because most
often than not, the vicissitudes of life have no regard for gender,
religion, social and educational status, creed or race. Here is
a clarion call to fortunate families and personalities that can set up
foundations in honour of the needy and victims of circumstances. If this
is done with the view to alleviating the plight of the downtrodden,
meaningful changes would be visible. This is also why foundations such
as the Bill and Melinda Gate Foundation, and other humanitarian
agencies, committed to fighting malaria and other diseases in Africa,
should be encouraged to do more. The impact of the Kanu Heart
Foundation, where thousands of people, most especially, children
suffering from heart problems are taken abroad for treatment can also
not be over emphasised; this also can be imbibed by others. Recently, worried by increasing neglect of orphans and the destitute,
especially babies and kids, the Late Most Supreme AP. Matthew Omodayo
Owotuga Foundation, donated an orphanage to Nigeria’s first hospital –
Sacred Heart Hospital, Abeokuta, owned and operated by the Catholic
Church. This facility will house and offer cares for such stratum of
people in the society. The foundation was established in 2009 to cater
for orphans and the indigent children, whose parents could not pay
tuition fees and take adequate care of them. Before now, the
Omodayo-Owotuga Foundation had been extending charities and gifts to
orphanages in Lagos, Ondo and Ogun states, as part of efforts to
remember the departed soul, but changed the system this year by
partnering with the famous Catholic hospital, established in 1895 and
located in the heart beat of Abeokuta, Ogun state capital, to deepen
investment in the lives of the “have nots”, such as the orphans,
indigent students and the destitute. Speaking at the
commissioning and hand-over ceremony of Omodayo Owotuga Orphanage to
Sacred Heart Hospital in Abeokuta, Most Reverend, Peter Odetoyinbo,
Bishop of Catholic Diocese of Abeokuta, appealed to the rich and
influential to emulate this humanity gesture, which he described as a
way of reaching out and thanking God for His mercies. Also
speaking, Chairman, Omodayo-Owotuga Foundation, Jonathan Samuel, said
the foundation is purely for charity to the people in need, where
tuition, WAEC, GCE and JAMB fees of indigent students are also being
taken care of, since its existence in 2009. Also, the first
child and daughter of late Omodayo Owotuga, Agnes Mobolaji Ehinmowo,
said they grew up knowing their father as a free giver and the
attributes of kindness, friendly and generosity was inherited from him,
thus the creation of the foundation in 2009, in memorial of their late
father.  Africa’s richest man and business mogul, Alhaji Aliko
Dangote likewise, recently donated a 250 bed capacity hospital to the
Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, emulating late chief MKO Abiola,
who, in the 90s, gave all the higher institutions in Nigeria, one
million naira each for the development and ultimate benefit of the
disadvantaged. It is also quite germane to remind the world
that God Almighty aligns strongly with the needy, poor and less-
privilege and He’s committed to their prayers and heart cries. In view
of this, humanity should understand that good done the downtrodden is by
extension, done to their creator. (He that hath pity upon the poor
lendeth unto the LORD; and that which he hath given will he pay him
again. Proverbs 19:17). One thing that is however sacrosanct is
that, life goes on and this is why the humanitarian and benevolent
traits in individuals must be stirred in order to arrest and cushion the
effect on people and at least, guarantee them a meaningful lifestyle
that will engender a virile society and relieve the less privileged and
other vulnerable groups, of a turbulent life. Furthermore,
multinational companies and other large scale business owners must
channel their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities towards
meeting the needs of the downtrodden and others that natural occurrences
and unpredictable phase of life have deprived the joy of living. In conclusion, people who have dedicated their lives to the
emancipation of the poor should please increase the tempo, even as new
ones are expected to come on board because whether they know it or not,
they are feeding, clothing and meeting the need of God himself because
the Holy Bible again says in Mathew 25: 35-40, that as people lend
helping hands to the poor, they earn themselves unquantifiable eternal
reward. •Richard, a public affairs analyst, wrote in from Abeokuta, the Ogun state Capital.