The house of veteran actor, Ajirebi Kayode Olasehinde, popularly known as Pa James of Papa Ajasco television series was affected by flood that occurred in Lagos State after the heavy downpour of Sunday. His son, Samuel Ajirebi, who confirmed the sad development, shared some pictures and videos showing the terrible state of his father’s compound on social media. He wrote: “Seriously sad right now, I get to think at times that, are we sure we have a government in this country? “Look at what I met on going to visit my family today, a flooded house due to the overflowing canal behind our street. “To make matters worse, no one was at home save my dad, so the old man and I had to be saving properties and scooping water out of the house! “This year makes it ten years of repeated and consistent occurrence of this with severe damages done annually to properties, at times leading to temporary displacement! “Letters have been written, appearances made, press releases written, still no significant step taken by the government to channel the overrunning canal. “We need governmental intervention in Oke Isagun Community of Oke Odo LGA. ‘’We lose properties! We lose rest whenever we see rain signs! Tonight is going to be a partial prayer moment for families, because it must not rain tonight…. No house for us to sleep in anymore! “This is sad and heartbreaking. “This is not a sympathy plea for anything, but a call to the state and local government authorities of Lagos ( @akinwunmiambode and @jidesanwoolu ), Oke Odo LGA respectively to please wake up to your responsibility and stop making citizens suffer in neglect.” Watch video below : S E R I O U S L Y S A D RIGHT NOW ❗️❗️❗️ I get to think at times that "are we sure we have a government in this country?". Look at what I met on going to visit my family today. A flooded house due to the the overflowing canal behind our street. To make matters worse, noone was at home save my dad, so the oldman and I had to be saving properties and scooping water out of the house! This year makes it ten years of repeated and consistent occirence of this with severe damages done annually to properties, at times leading to temporary displacement! Letters have been written, tv appearances made, press releases written, still no significant step taken by the government to channel the overrunning Canal…. This is not a sympathy plea for anything, but a call to The state and local government authorities of Lagos ( @akinwunmiambode and @jidesanwoolu ) Oke Odo LGA respectively to please wake up to your responsibility and stop making citizens suffer in neglect! We need Governmental intervention in Oke Isagun Community of Oke Odo LGA! We lose properties! We lose rest whenever we see rain signs! Tonight is going to be a partial prayer moment for families, because it must not rain tonight…. No house for us to sleep in anymore! This is sad and heartbreaking! @muhammadubuhari @profosinbajo @tundeednut @instablog9ja @olofofonaija @pulsenigeriatv @pulsenigeria247 @welove2laugh #erosion #flood #messedupgovernance #wakeupnaija #housingproblem #lagosstate #ajirebi A post shared by  Samuel olaoluwa olasehinde (@samuelajirebi) on May 20, 2019 at 12:48pm PDT Source