Conference Papers Conference papers refer to articles that are written with the goal of being accepted for presentation in a conference; typically an annual (or biannual) event with a specific scope where you can present your research results to the scholastic community, usually through an oral presentation, a poster presentation, or a tabled discussion (www.quora.com). It is different from a journal which is a regular periodical publication, printed perhaps monthly or bi-monthly, which contains collection of reviewed papers (https://academia.stackexchange.com). Why
are Conference Papers Exceptional? There is no better way to transmit your researches to your
fellow mavens than writing an effective conference paper. It only does not
introduce your new ideas in doing things differently from how it’s been done
before; it helps raise your prominence in your line of career. It also helps
resolve/answer some critical questions that bother on the research questions,
which might be raised. What
to Look Out for in Your Conference Paper? Introduction        –
Specify the significance of the study. Literature review – Is generally thought that half of
your reference is under 5 years. The literature review explains different
citations from different source and how it correlates with the topic under
discussion. Research Methodology – Describe research design in the
form of – Data collection plan (quantitative and/or qualitative) and Data
analysis plan (quantitative and/or qualitative). Findings
– As the name implies, it shows the qualitative findings, including tables to
clarify descriptive and inferential statistics. Conclusion –
State the problem and analyze solutions enumerated to solve the problems. Reference – Indicates where citation were
been taken from. What Do You Need To Do? Refer to your theme, and enlarge
on it in various ways throughout your presentation. Experienced speakers know
the value of having a theme. When they are preparing a talk, the theme helps
them to focus attention on a narrower field of information and to think more
deeply about it. The result is
that instead of superficially touching on many points, they develop their
material in a way that is more beneficial to their audience. When each of the
main points is directly connected to the theme and helps to develop it, the
audience is also helped to remember those points and to appreciate their
significance. Although it can
be said that your theme is the subject on which you speak, you will find that
the quality of your talks will improve if you take the position that your theme
is the particular viewpoint from which you develop your subject. If selection of
the theme is left to you, consider first the objective of your presentation.
Then as you select the main points that will make up your outline, be sure that
these really support the theme you have chosen. If the theme is
assigned, analyze carefully what it indicates as to the way that your material
is to be developed. Some effort may
be required to appreciate the value and potential of such a theme. If you will
be choosing material with which to develop the assigned theme, make careful
selection so that the theme will be kept in focus. On the other hand, if the
material is provided, you still need to analyze how to use it in harmony with
the theme. You also need to consider why the material is important to your
audience and what your objective should be in delivering it. This will help you
determine what to emphasize in your delivery. Abraham O. A.
(2018). Writing Excellent Articles for
Conferences and Journals. Notionpress.com, sold on amazon. How to
Emphasize the Theme of Your Conference Paper By Prof. Abraham O. A In order to give
proper emphasis to the theme, you must lay the foundation when selecting and
organizing your material. If you use only what supports your theme and if you
follow principles involved in preparing a good presentation, you will almost
automatically emphasize the theme. Repetition can
help to reinforce the theme. In classical music, a theme is a melody repeated
often enough to characterize the entire composition. The melody does not always
reappear in the same form. Sometimes only a phrase or two occur, occasionally a
variation on the theme is used, but in one way or another, the composer
skillfully weaves his melody in and out of the composition until it permeates
the whole. That is the way it should be with the theme of a talk. Repetition of
key words from the theme is like the recurring melody of a musical composition.
Synonyms of these words or the theme rephrased serves as a variation on the
theme. Use of such means will cause the theme to be the main thought your
audience carries away. Making
your Main Points Stand-Out What are the main points of a talk? These are not simply
interesting aspects that are briefly stated in passing. They are important
ideas that are developed at length. They are the ideas that are crucial to
achieving your objective. A key to making the main points stand out is your selecting
and organizing of material wisely. Research for a talk frequently yields more
information than can be used. How can you determine what to use? First, consider your audience. Are they largely unacquainted
with your subject, or are they quite familiar with it? What sort of challenges
do they face in daily routine as it relates to the topic under discussion?
Second, be sure that you have clearly in mind your objective in speaking to
that audience on the subject you plan to use. Using these two guidelines,
evaluate the material and retain only what really fits. If you have been given a basic outline with a theme and main
points, you should adhere to it. However, the value of what you present will be
greatly enhanced if you keep in mind the above factors when developing each
main point. When no outline has been supplied, it is up to you to select the
main points. When you have your main points clearly in mind and have
organized the details under these, it will be easier for you to give the talk. Likely, your audience will also get more out of it. A variety of patterns can be followed in organizing the body
of your talk. As you get acquainted with them, you will find that several can
be effective, depending on your objective. A versatile pattern involves topical subdivision. (Each main
point is needed because it adds to your listeners’ understanding of the subject
or helps achieve the objective of your talk.) Another pattern is chronological.
A third pattern is cause and effect. (This may be developed in either
direction. For example, you could start with a current situation, the effect,
and then show the cause.) A fourth method involves opposites. (You might
contrast good with bad or positive with negative.) Sometimes a talk will
include more than one method. Also remember there are only a few essentials in developing
any theme. In the majority of cases, these can be numbered on one hand. This is
true whether you will be speaking for 5minutes, 10minutes, 30minutes, or
longer. Do not try to make too many points stand out. Your audience can
reasonably grasp only a few different ideas from one talk. And the longer the
talk, the stronger and more sharply defined the key points must be. Regardless of how many main points you use, be sure to
develop each one sufficiently. Allow the audience enough time to examine each
main point so that it becomes firmly impressed on their minds. Your talk should give an impression of simplicity. This does
not always depend on the amount of material presented. If your thoughts are
clearly grouped under just a few main headings and you develop these one at a
time, the talk will be easy to follow and hard to forget. If your material is properly organized, it will not be
difficult to reinforce the significance of your main points by means of your
delivery. The principal way to make a main point stand out is to present points
of proof, scriptures, and other material in such a manner that these focus
attention on the main idea and amplify it. All secondary points should clarify,
prove, or amplify the main point. Do not add irrelevant ideas just because they
are interesting. As you develop secondary points, show clearly their connection
with the main point that they support. Do not leave it to the audience to
figure out. The connection can be shown by repeating key words that express the
main thought or by repeating the gist of the main point itself from time to
time. Abraham O. A.
(2018). Writing Excellent Articles for
Conferences and Journals. Notionpress.com, sold on amazon.