By Chibuike
Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – President Muhammadu Buhari has blamed
the current insecurity and poverty bedeviling the country on the mismanagement
of resources by past governments. Speaking while receiving in audience the board of Ecobank
Transnational Incorporated, led by the Group Chairman, Mr Emmanuel Ikazoboh at
the presidential villa, Abuja, he said if assets and resources available to
Nigeria were properly managed, the country would be prosperous and peaceful. But the poverty and insecurity we are experiencing today are
results of decades of neglect and resource mismanagement, he said. Buhari, who disclosed this on Tuesday in a statement issued by
Femi Adesina, reminded that government remains committed to the goals of
securing the country, inclusive economic growth, and fighting corruption. According to him, President Buhari said Nigeria was in a unique
position as the most populous and resource-rich nation on the African
continent, adding that the resources would be harnessed and properly managed,
to engender a prosperous and peaceful country. The President said his government was not only determined to
reverse the trend of squander-mania and mismanagement, “we have made progress
in some areas such as agriculture. He, therefore, appealed to Ecobank Transnational Incorporated to
“institute a special fund to develop agriculture, which will cement your legacy
as a bank that helped to transform this region’s economic fortunes.” President Buhari commended Ecobank for being active in promoting
financial inclusion, noting that it is key to the government’s diversification
agenda. On requests by the bank for decongestion of Apapa ports, and
rebuilding of the transnational Lagos-Badagry-Seme road, he responded: “We are
aware and are working in all those areas, and by the grace of God, you will
start seeing results during my second term in office.” Mr Ikazoboh disclosed that the Ecobank Group was in 36 countries
in Africa and 40 globally. The bank, founded 30 years ago by private sector entrepreneurs,
has over 20 million customers, with over eight million of them in Nigeria. Mr Ikazoboh said President Buhari’s recent re-election is a
testimony of the hard work done, adding that reforms embarked on by the
administration, across sectors, “will have deep, long term impact on Nigeria,
West Africa, and Africa.”