By Ifeoma Aka Enugu – The Committee on Legislative Governance on Tuesday submitted its report on Uniform House Standing Order at the Enugu State House of Assembly plenary. The committee, which submitted the report to the Speaker of Enugu State Assembly, Chief Edward Ubosi, was charged with the responsibility of harmonising the Houses of Assembly Standing Order for the five South-East states. The committee’s Chairman and Leader of the Assembly, Mr Ikechukwu Ezeugwu, who presented the report recalled that his committee was mandated to fashion a uniform House Standing Order at the meeting of Speakers held in Awka, Anambra, on Jan. 26, 2018. According to Ezeugwu, it was agreed at the meeting that the legislative institution required serious reform to function effectively, unite and develop the zone so as to provide better livelihood and robust democracy dividends for the people. Ezeugwu also said that it was equally agreed at the meeting that the Legislative Reform Committee should have its secretariat in Enugu. He equally said that the committee apart from working on uniform house standing order, was also charged with the responsibility of establishing House of Assembly Service Commission; Constituency Engagement; Self Assessment as well as Periodic Peer Review and Exchange Programmes. The chairman noted that already, the reform which would take effect from June 20, 2019, has started achieving results in line with the set objective. He disclosed that Enugu State House of Assembly had already passed the House of Assembly Service Commission Bill which was now awaiting executive assent. “The House of Assembly Service Commission bill has been passed in Anambra also. “In Imo and Ebonyi states, the Houses of Assembly Service Commission bills have been passed and assented to, while Abia has reached advanced stage towards passing the bill,” Ezeugwu disclosed. Ezeugwu disclosed that for his committee to achieve its objective, they worked assiduously with the Forum of South East clerks to harmonise the Houses of Assembly Standing Order which was vetted by Speakers in Enugu on Nov. 30, 2018. “I am glad to report that Anambra and Abia states adopted the Uniform Standing Order as a working document.  Ebonyi and Imo State Houses of Assembly will follow suit this month,” he said. Receiving the report, the Speaker of Enugu Assembly, Ubosi commended the committee for doing a painstaking job. (NAN)