A Nigerian-born British lawmaker, Fiona Onasanya has become the first member of the British Parliament to lose her seat in the House of Commons after a recall petition by voters. Onasanya, a former Labour Member of Parliament (MP) became the first female lawmaker to be jailed after she lied to officers about who was driving her car to avoid a speeding ticket. She was sentenced to three months in jail in January 2019 and served less than four weeks of the sentence. The conviction resulted in her ouster from the Labour Party, while registered voters in her Peterborough constituency have now signed a recall petition demanding her removal. Onasanya, 35, will go down in history as the first MP ever to be removed by the recall process which was introduced by David Cameron in 2015. A total of 19,261 people signed the petition, representing 27.64% of those eligible to partake and clearly above the 10% required for a recall. A keenly contested by-election is expected to follow in the Peterborough constituency to fill the vacant seat. Interestingly, Onasanya who won by just 607 votes in 2017 and voted decisively for Brexit, is permitted to stand as an independent. Onasanya was first elected to Parliament as a Labour MP by a slight majority in 2017. A year later, she was charged with perverting the course of justice after lying about the speeding offence for which she was found to have colluded with her brother Festus Onasanya, (who has been jailed for 10 months) to avoid a speeding ticket. She was expelled by Labour after her conviction but the solicitor refused to quit after being handed a three-month prison sentence. The former Labour MP, who was booted out of the party after her conviction, has continued to collect her £77,379 salary and appear in the Commons to vote. Labour party chairman Ian Lavery MP, said: “The people of Peterborough clearly agree that Fiona Onasanya is not fit to be their MP and we’re delighted they will now have the chance to vote for a Labour MP in our excellent candidate, Lisa Forbes.” Source: 1stNews