By George Odok Calabar – The Cross River government on Thursday, said it had revitalised 54 Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs) within four years, to boost health service delivery in the state Dr Inyang Asibong, Commissioner for Health in the state, said this in
an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria ( NAN) in Calabar,  while
listing some of her achievements in office since November 2015. Asibong said  the revitalisation was carried out with a view to
making healthcare service accessible to residents in the state,
especially those in the rural areas. She added that the revitalisation was also aimed at achieving
universal health coverage in the state and ensuring a healthy life for
all. “We have recorded tremendous achievement in the health sector under
Gov. Ben Ayade. For now, we have three functional Primary Healthcare
Centres in every local government; this amounts to 54 revitalised
centres across the state. “More so, renovation work is ongoing, and very soon, we will put
other centres to work. Currently, there are 1,031 primary healthcare
facilities spread across the state for health delivery. “The need is to strengthen service delivery in view of the increased
demand for health services at the secondary and tertiary level of
care,’’ she said. She told NAN that three AyadeCare Referral Hospitals were currently
under construction simultaneously across the three Senatorial District
of the state to complement the desire for improved healthcare in the
state. The commissioner further said that the ministry under her leadership
hosted the Cross River Health Summit in 2017 and the Cross River 
Council on Health in 2018 with a view to improving heath delivery. She said that the focus of the two events were to create a platform
for engagement and synthesising the opinions of Crossriverians on
achieving Universal Health Coverage and to make available,  quality and
affordable healthcare to all citizens. The commissioner said that the Calabar Pharmaceutical Company,
`CalaPham’ was 75 per cent completed; adding that the registration
process with the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria and the National Agency
for Food, Drug Administration and Control was ongoing. “Also, our six schools of nursing are one of the bests in the country and our students are doing great,’’ asibong said. She told NAN that staff of the ministry were sponsored to attend
relevant conferences during the period under review to boost their
practices. On employment, she said that the state government employed 1,000
health workers in January across different cadres to be fully integrated
into the health workforce. The commissioner added that there had been a significant boost in the
quantity of health workers which she said placed  an increased demand
on efficient planning, supervision and standard for quality control. “I must specially thank Gov. Ayade for finding me worthy and capable
to serve in the health ministry in his first administration,’’ she said.