By Victor Adeoti Osogbo – The outgoing Speaker of Osun House Assembly, Dr Najeem Salaam, says what he will miss most after his tenure as the speaker of the assembly is the ‘gavel’. Salaam made this known in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Osogbo on Thursday. He said no other job could be so interesting like putting a `gavel’,
which is the symbol of authority on every issue on the floor of the
house. “Every drafter of a bill in the assembly has the idea of what he wants the law to look like at the end of the day. “Without the gavel of the speaker, which is the stamp of authority, there is no how such a bill can become a law. “Putting gavel on every bill and issue as a final stamp of authority
as speaker of the assembly is one of those things I will miss,’’ the
speaker said. Salaam (APC – Ejigbo), who is the speaker of the assembly for two
consecutive terms, said he would also miss the opportunity of passing
bills that would be of great benefits to the citizens. On who would succeed him as the next speaker, Salaam said that the
incoming  assembly members need to elect an experienced person as a
speaker. He, however, said that the leadership of the party would determine who is to become the next speaker. “One vital thing that will be a guide for the leaders of the party in
choosing who will be the next speaker is the level of experience of the
incoming lawmakers. “Sentiment should be put aside; rather someone who is capable and can deliver should be elected. “If someone who is not acceptable by the people is elected through
sentiment, such a person can only last for a year because the members of
the assembly have the right to impeach their leader,’’ Salaam said. The speaker said that the incoming lawmakers needed capable, experienced and matured person as the speaker. Salaam also said that with the economic situation in the state, any
lawmaker who is greedy and not ready to make sacrifices cannot be the
speaker of the assembly. “To be a successful leader in Osun Assembly, you must be ready to
sacrifice many things and be contented with the little you have. “If you are an agitator who always wants everything, then you cannot lead Osun Assembly,’’ Salaam said.