By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – At last, Former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo on Saturday proffered solution on how terrorism and Boko Haram bedeviling the country should be curbed and stamped out. He warned that every insecurity situation in Nigeria must be taken
seriously and be addressed at once without favouritism or cuddling. He handed the
warning at the 2nd session of the Synod held at the Cathedral Church of
St.Paul’s Anglican Church, Oleh in Isoko South Local Government Area of Delta
State. Obasanjo, who
spoke on the topic, “Mobilizing Nigeria’s human& natural resources for national
development and stability” also said both Boko Haram and herdsmen acts of
violence were not treated as they should at the beginning. According to
him, “They have both incubated and developed beyond what Nigeria can handle
alone. They are now combined and internationalized with ISIS in control. “It is no
longer an issue of lack of education and lack of employment for our youths in
Nigeria which it began as, it is now West African fulanization, African
Islamization and global organized crimes of human trafficking, money
laundering, drug trafficking, gun trafficking, illegal mining and regime
change. “Yet, we could
have dealt with both earlier, and nip them in the bud, but Boko Haram boys were
seen as rascals not requiring serious attention in administering holistic
measures of stick and carrot. “And when we
woke up to the reality, it was turned to industry for all and sundry to supply
materials and equipment that were already outdated and that were not fit for
active military purpose. “Soldiers were
poorly trained for the unusual mission, poorly equipped, poorly motivated,
poorly led and made to engage in propaganda rather than achieving results. “Intelligence
was poor and governments embarked on games of denials while paying ransoms
which strengthened the insurgents and yet governments denied payments of
ransoms. Today, the insecurity issue has gone beyond the wit and capacity of
Nigerian Government or even West African Governments”. Obasanjo continued, “Government must appreciate where we are, summon each group
that should make contributions one by one and subsequently collectively seek
the way forward for all hands on deck and with the holistic approach of stick
and carrot. He stressed, “There should be no sacred cow. Some of the
groups that I will suggest to be contacted are: Traditional rulers, past heads
of Service Chiefs (no matter how competent or incompetent they have been and
how much they have contributed to the mess we are in), past heads of
paramilitary or organizations, private sector, civil society , community
leaders particularly in the most affected areas, present and past governors,
present and past local government leaders, religious leaders, past Heads of
States, past Intelligence Chiefs, past heads of Civil Service and relevant current and retired diplomats, members of opposition
and any groups that may be deemed
relevant. “After we have found appropriate solution internally, we
should move to bilateral, Speaking on the theme for this year’s synod is “Work,
night comes – John 9:4&5”, the Bishop of Oleh Diocese, Anglican Communion,
Rt.Rev. John Aruakpor, in a sermon, charged his audience to make haste and
serve God while they are still alive stressing that, “no one knows when, where
and how death will meet them.” multinational, regional, continental and global levels. With ISIS involvement, we cannot
but go global. ” Without security and predictable
stability, our development , growth and progress are in period. “Let me hasten to add that we must be at the appropriate seat at the table of international discourse, deliberations, agenda and action.” Source: Daily Post