By Olukayode Babalola Nasarawa-Eggon – Islamic Society of Eggonland (ISE), A Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), has donated provisions worth N3 million to patients in six hospitals and inmates of Wamba prison in Nasarawa state. Mr Umar Abdullahi-Galle, Secretary of the NGO, told newsmen after the
exercise on Wednesday in Nasarawa-Eggon Local Government Area that the
gesture was in the spirit of the Ramadan period. He also said that another reason for the gesture was to fulfil one of
the objectives of the society, which is rendering humanitarian services
to the people, especially the poor and the needy. “This is the first of its kind in this place and you can see from our
visit, there is a lot of joy and commendation from the patients and
inmates we visited. “We chose the holy month of Ramadan to render this assistance to the
needy because it is one of the months God recommended for giving
services to humanity. “You can see in our motto, for God and humanity, and today we are
happy that we have fulfilled one of our obligations to humanity,” he
said. Abdullahi-Galle, who said that the society had no form of support
from any government authority, appealed to the state and local
governments to support the society to render assistance to the needy and
promote peaceful religious coexistence in the state. “We haven’t received support from government yet buy we can partner
with government in areas like this but not just visiting hospitals and
prisons but in situations such as communal crisis and natural disasters. “We can partner with them to bring succor to those affected. Our door
is open for government to give the necessary support,” he said. Abdullahi-Galle revealed that the exercise would be repeated yearly
and that for this year, the society specifically chose hospital patients
and inmates to make them have a sense of belonging. “We also preach to them to have in faith in God in changing their condition for good despite their current predicament”. He listed the provisions and foodstuffs to include: bags of rice,
bags of maize, cartons of Maggi cube, cartons of bottled water, cartons
of sugar, cartons of Lucozade Boost drink, cartons of Chi Exotic fruit
juice, cartons of Milk and Milo among others. Reacting to the gesture, Dr Gonji Thomas, the Medical Superintendent, Akwanga General Hospital, lauded the initiative. He said that the support would lift the spirits of patients and make
them smile, saying that the society cares about them and prays for their
quick recovery. “If patients discover that you are giving them one form of assistance or the other, it makes them happy. “We believe God will bless you and pay you back abundantly. This is
the first private organisation that has ever made this move. We really
appreciate,” he said. A patient at the Nasarawa-Eggon General Hospital, Mr Sunday Abimiku
also expressed joy over the gesture and said it has made his day and
would spur his quick recovery from his current health situation. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the health facilities
visited are General Hospital, Nasarawa-Eggon, Mokwa Clinic,
Nasarawa-Eggon, Primary Healthcare Centre (PHC), Nasarawa-Eggon, Akun
Clinic, Nasarawa-Eggon. Others are Town Clinic, Nasarawa-Eggon and General Hospital, Akwanga
while inmates visited are those in Wamba prison in Wamba Local
Government Area.