By Zainab Oyekan Jos – Mr John Daven, the Director, Plateau Vehicle Inspection Office (VIO) on Thursday in Jos decried the continuous harassment of personnel of the outfit by motorists, while performing their duties. Daven told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that it had become
embarrassing and a lingering concern, the way and manner officers and
men of the VIO office in Plateau were treated, while on their routine
vehicles checks. He, however, said that his office had put some stringent measures in
place to deal with such acts by the motorists that may want to continue
to persecute its officials while on duty. “There are numerous instances where our men are almost run over by
motorists, some of them are even bundled into unknown vehicles, while on
road duties and taken away by the irate motorists,’’ he said. Daven, however, noted that some of such motorists have been arrested, charged to court and appropriately punished by the law. The director said that the office had carried out several
sensitisation campaigns to educate the public on the various duties of
the VIO. He said that the motoring public had been assured that men and
officers of the VIO’s Office were not out to delay and exploit anyone,
but only on the road to inspect the state of their vehicles and ensure
their road safety. Some motorists interviewed by NAN along the state library and British
American junction, Jos used by the VIO for regular road checks on
vehicles accused men of the VIO’s Office of overstepping their limits. A motorist, Mr Peter Adoh, said that VIO personnel are sometimes
doing the work of policemen on the road and can cause unnecessary delays
for motorists. “I am not saying that it is right to harass an officer on duty but
sometimes, it’s really frustrating to be delayed, especially when you
are behind schedule,’’ Adoh said. Mrs Kate Agbo, another motorist, said it was a dangerous thing for a
motorist not to stop when asked to stop by a law enforcement officer. “I was in tricycle and the VIO officers stopped the driver and he
refused to stop and sped away, almost running over the officer in the
process, ‘’ said Agbo. The director, however, pleaded for the cooperation of motorists with
the VIO office to enable them to discharge their duties effectively for
better motoring on the Plateau.