The largest empires that the world has ever known are, in order of size,
the British, Mongol, Russian, Spanish, Umayyad, Yuan, Qing, French,
Abbasid and Portugese empires. There were a number of other
large and notable empires in world history such as the Roman, Ottoman,
Greek, Babylonian, Persian and Mughal empires. The  post-World
War 1 Soviet empire was massive and powerful and it was followed by the
establishment of the post-World War 1 American empire which was equally
formidable and which matched it in all ramifications. The race
for supremacy between the two continued after the defeat of Hitler, Nazi
Germany and the Axis powers in World War 2 in 1945 and this resulted in
the establishment of an unpredictable and frightful bi-polar world, a
dangerous cold war and a tense balance of power between them. The American empire eventually prevailed and itextended
its awesome power and influence over the affairs and nations of the
world to an even greater level and extent after the collapse of
communism and the fall of the Soviet Union and Soviet empire in 1990. This
resulted in the establishment of a unipolar world and the emergence of
the United States of America as the most powerful and influential nation
and the greatest military power that the world has ever known or seen
in the history of humanity. One is constrained to ask, where is
Africa in all this? Have we ever had large empires? Have we ever made a
difference on the world stage? What is our contribution to human
development and world history? Consider the following. Though
relatively small when compared to others,  sub-saharan Africa has had
its own fair share of empires in the past such as the Songhai, Ashanti,
Oyo, Abyssinian, Benin, Bornu and Sokoto empires. However it is a
historical fact that no sub-saharan African power or empire has EVER
extended its borders beyond the African continent. Instead, for
thousands of years and indeed up until today, sub-saharan Africa has
been the greatest source of raw materials, mineral resouces and
commodities for the development of non-African nations and empires and
the world in general. Principal amongst those raw materials,
mineral resources and commodities were slaves. And the savage and
illicit trade in black flesh brought immense wealth and power to both
the eastern and western hemispheres of the world. It was on the
backs, sweat, blood, tears and labour of those black African slaves and
the sheer cruelty and unfathomable wickedness that was inflicted on them
that many of those great non-African empires were built. As a
matter of fact slavery was to later become the bedrock and foundation of
modern-day capitalism in 18th and 19th century Europe. It
brought immense and unparalleled wealth to Great Britain, France,
Holland, Portugal and many other western European countries just as it
had done to the Mongols, the Ottomites, the Romans, the Greeks, the
Persians and others in the past. For thousands of years slavery
has been Africa’s greatest “contribution” to the world and it
constituted a large part of our practice, heritage and tradition. Worse
of all is the fact that virtually all the slaves that were sold to
non-Africans were sold to them by their own African colleagues and
leaders. We were ready to kill our brightest and our best and
sell them off into slavery and bondage for profit and for gain. One is
constrained to ask, has anything changed? Is this not still the case
today? The implications and ramifications of this evil,
self-destructive, peculiar and strange disposition and this sorry state
of affairs, for the African people themselves itself, is dire and
pitiful. The fundamental questions that needs to be answered are
as follows: if this mentality persists and if it refuses to change or be
tempered by enlightenment, religious faith or education, where lies the
hope for the future of Africa and what will be her ultimate fate? Can
we afford to continue to wallow in self-pity, failure, shame and
mediocrity? Must we build our nations and institutions on the
accursed foundation of savagery, barbarity, injustice, tyranny,
wickedness, corruption, double-speak, lies, deceit, double-standards,
cheating, lying, ignorance, hypocrisy, greed and self-hate? Where will
this take us? O African, are you comfortable with being described as the “dark continent” and the “dustbin of the world?” Are
you satisfied with the way the world views and perceives us? Are you
comfortable with what our men  and women are subjected to in places like
Libya, Italy, Dubai and indeed all over the world? Do you know that
slavery is alive and well in some of these places? Do you know what many of our people are forced and compelled to do in foreign lands just to survive and make ends meet? When
will you get it right? When will you rise up, free yourself from the
shackles of mental and physical slavery and achieve your full potentials
on the world stage? When will you become the great men and women that God ordained you to be? Africa, Oh Africa, my heart bleeds for you!