By Rukayat Adeyemi Lagos – Prof. Olanrewaju Fagbohun, Vice-Chancellor, Lagos State University (LASU), says that Mr Babatunde Fashola, Minister of Power, Works and Housing, will be the keynote speaker at the university’s maiden research fair scheduled for Sept. 3. Fagbohun made the disclosure in an interview with the News Agency of
Nigeria (NAN) on the sidelines of the university’s 23rd Convocation news
conference in Lagos. He said that the research fair would be the first of its kind the
university was organising and that all universities in Nigeria would be
attending. According to him, the thrust of the fair is to build a synergy
between the academics and the industry towards a mutual and beneficial
relationship. “The event scheduled to hold on Sept. 3, is going to be a big one and
the former governor of Lagos State and Minister of Power, Works and
Housing, will be the keynote speaker,” he said. Fagbohun also noted that all the students of the university would be
graduating during the convocation had been very well prepared and ready
for employment. He said the “Ready, Set, Work’ Initiative” of the Lagos State
Government for final year and penultimate students, was a veritable
platform for developing employability and entrepreneurial skills of
students. “In the course of the programme, they have been exposed to employers
of labour, interacted with them, such that some of the students were
offered employment even before they graduated,” he said. According to him, the university has also set up the “LASU Career
Development Centre” where students are admitted, registered and are
continually trained on how to prepare a Curriculum Vitae and face
interviewers. He said the students were also guided by guidance counsellors who man
the unit on the professional bodies and association they could join as
students or upon graduation. “The platform, which is a continuous process, was launched sometimes last year and has been doing very well. “It helps student who are confused and who do not know what to do, or how to find their bearing in life and,” he said. The vice-chancellor revealed that the university had also established
a Centre for Entrepreneurial Studies, where students were trained and
co-opted for production of essential products. “Like the water we are going to use for the upcoming convocation is being packaged by the students. “We have already imparted into them the idea of self-reliance,
seeking to start their own business and also to be employers of labour. “This will enable them contribute effectively to the Nigeria enterprise,” he said. NAN reports that the university will graduate 14,369 students during
its 23rd convocation scheduled to hold between May 10 and May 16. Out of the number, 57 students will bag first class degrees, thereby
representing the highest figure in its 36 years of existence. Prof. Yemi Osinbanjo, Vice-president, Federal Republic of Nigeria,
will deliver the convocation lecture, billed for May 16 and titled:
“Africa Centres of Excellence In African Universities: A Veritable
Catalyst For Nation Building and Development”. Also, a former President, Federal Republic of Ghana, John Mahama, will be chair the event.