By Muftau Ogunyemi Akure, – Mr Ade Adetimehin, Ondo State Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), has called on all members of the party to unite in other to sustain continuity in the state. Adetimehin made the plea on Thursday during a meeting with media practitioners in Akure. The chairman noted that what the present government had done in the
last two years was more than what the previous government executed
during its four-year tenure in terms of road network, industrialisation
and many other issues. He urged the people to allow continuity to reign, so as to enhance overall development across the state “As state APC chairman, and I am not speaking on behalf of anybody or
talking about an individual candidate but I am pleading for
cooperation; if APC can be allowed to continue in government, this state
will certainly move faster in terms of development. “Adefarati had a programme to industrialise Ore in Odigbo Local
Government Area; he wanted to develop Ore as a market hub for the entire
South-West but along the line, the government was changed, which marked
the end of the project. “Agagu came on board with another beautiful idea, the Olokola Free
Trade Zone, but when he left, that was also the end of that plan. “ Mimiko also came on board, instead of him to continue with Agagu’s
programmes, he started his own Mega Schools and Mega Markets. “This present government has embarked on road networks and more than
seven industries have been established in the state, especially in Ore
by the present government. “I believe that if all the industries start work fully, people will value us more than the way they look at us now. “If it is well sustained, I believe Ondo State will not only rely on
monthly allocations from Federal Government, but it will also generate
its own income internally. “Governance is a continuum but the people playing the game do not 
believe in it;  all they believe in is all they can do to satisfy
their selfish interests but the corporate interest is usually bigger
than individual interest,’’ he said. Adetimehin, therefore, urged that the APC in the state should remain
one family, stressing that party leaders should to come together and
strive to solve all party problems internally. He pleaded with journalists in the state not to allow themselves to be used by any politician to cause problems. “It will pay us to work together for the development of our dear
state because you are in a position to proclaim our potential to the
world,’’ he said.