The adage ‘Internet never forgets’ has implemented itself in the story of Nollywood Actresses, Chika Ike and another actress, Annie Idibia, who is also the wife of legendary singer, Tuface Idibia. Nigerians, in their usual detective-style curiosity have fished-out their connection with Ned Nwoko, the 59-yr-old billionaire who has been trending after his marriage to 20-year-old actress, Regina Daniels. Below is the viral report that allegedly made headlines 7 years ago: “As you read this report, fast rising actress Annie Macaulay and the rave of the moment (courtesy of her fancy nancy store) actress Chika Ike are in cold war. According to a source, the actresses have been good friends, until Annie introduced Chika to Prince Ned Nwoko who is a London trained international lawyer. It was however gathered that, things went fine between the lawyer and Chika, with the actress getting a N16 million naira ‘tear rubber’ (brand new) Range Rover Sport from the relationship. And long before her friends could say the actress has arrived, she declared her Fancy Nancy store opened still courtesy of Prince Ned. “Annie who was however shocked about all these, a source said, asked for her own share of what she got from the lawyer, but Chika turned her down insisting she worked hard for it. The source also informed that Prince Ned was angry about people crediting the Senate President, Senator David Mark as the one behind the actress’ new lifestyle instead of him. The two friends have gone their separate ways and Annie is still so much bitter with her one time friend.” Fortunately for Regina Daniels, she is the lucky girl to have him as her husband. Annie was born in Ibadan but is originally from Eket in Akwa Ibom State. She moved to Lagos with her mother after the divorce of her parents. She holds a degree in Computer Science and Theatre Arts after completing undergraduate courses at Lagos State University and the University of Lagos respectively. Prior to the start of Annie Macaulay–Idibia’s acting career, she competed at the “Queen of All Nations Beauty Pageant” where she placed runner-up and she also went on feature in a cameo appearance on the music video of 2face Idibia’s “African Queen” song. Her Nollywood career came to limelight for her role in the movies titled Pleasure and Crime and Blackberry Babes. Annie Idibia is happily married to her husband and has two kids for him. She also owns a beauty salon in Atlanta called “BeOlive Hair Studio”. As for Chika Ike, not many Nigerian celebrities can boast of a Harvard Business School degree but she is making her way to be the prestigious school’s alumni. At age 33, most women in African society will rather show their family and kids as a major achievement but not in her world who is busy building an empire. Ike started her acting career in 2005, then, there wasn’t much to see except her passion for acting and a lady trying to make it in an industry that was just majorly starting out. Few years later, the pretty actress had grown to become a boss lady. Owning a successful fashion outlet, stepping into real estate business, Chika was out to make big bucks and never relented. Came as no surprise when her hardwork seem to be paying off. Right before the eyes of her fans, she blossomed into a more beautiful woman with style, elegance and most importantly, goals. Source