Bangkok – Thailand’s King Maha Vajiralongkorn on Friday opened the country’s first parliament since the military seized power from an elected government in a 2014 coup. Parliament will choose a new prime minister, who will form a cabinet
likely in June, but its exact makeup is not yet known after a March 24,
election produced no clear winner. However, a military-linked party aiming to keep current junta leader
Prayuth Chan-ocha in power is expected to have the edge in cementing
power under rules written by the military government. “May the members of parliament be aware of the importance and
responsibility of their duties,” King Vajiralongkorn, accompanied by his
new Queen Suthida Bajrasudhabimalalakshana, said. “Because every action of each member will directly impact the security of the nation and the happiness of the people.’’ The Thai parliament combines a 500-member House of Representatives
elected in the March 24, polls and 250 senators, who were entirely
appointed by the junta. Ambassadors, junta members, and members of the king’s Privy Council were also present at the convention. A convention which came a day after an anti-junta party leader was
suspended as a member of parliament over his alleged illegal holding of
shares in a media company after registering as a candidate for the
election. Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit, leader of the youth-oriented Future
Forward Party, would be suspended from taking his seat until a ruling by
the Constitutional Court, which could see him permanently disqualified. Thanathorn has denied the charge and said he had already transferred his shares before he officially registered. The March 24, election pitted supporters of the junta, who seek to
keep Prayuth in power, against the Democratic Front of seven parties
that wants to keep the military out of politics. With 245 seats, the Democratic Front now led by Thanathorn is trying
to form a government and block a 15-party coalition of pro-junta Palang
Pracharat and its allies, which together holds 134 seats so far. Some other 100 elected members of parliament from other parties have not officially aligned with either side. The lower house will convene again on Saturday to choose its chairman. Under the new junta-written constitution, the House of
Representatives will vote along with the junta-appointed Senate to
choose the prime minister, which is expected later this month. Prayuth appears set to stay in power, providing that the majority of
the Senate votes in line to get him over the line of 375 votes, or half
of the combined houses. The next government is expected to take shape early in June.