I have caught up on the Blessing Okoro mini scandal. I have also watched the sickening video of her arrest, handcuffing, and humiliation by Onye-Eze, the owner of the home she purportedly paraded on instagram as her own. It’s a shame that the billionaire owner of the home is using the error of Blessing to show off his home and wealth and doing overkill on the poor woman. The broader lessons are salient. Apparently, Nigerians are belatedly catching on to the social media fad of flamboyant self-packaging–some call it self-branding. I had a recent encounter with this growing phenomenon when I was in Nigeria in March. I was staying at L’eola Suites. I came out of my hotel room to find a group of young people taking photos by the hotel sign close to the front desk. I noticed that it was a professional crew of photographers and that the center of the activity was a young lady. I watched as she took many photos from different angles, changing outfits. She even had a stylist who was adjusting her makeup and hair between photos. After a while I went downstairs and saw them again, this time, they were taking photos around the premises. The young woman had changed outfits again, this time wearing a tiara of some sort. Shortly after, they entered their vehicle and left. That’s when it dawned on me that they were not guests at the hotel but that they had gone there to take photos for their social media pages or to package themselves as people who stayed at the hotel or held events there. They probably bribed the staff to be allowed to do their business on a slow, weekend day at the hotel. The moral of this and similar stories, including the saga of Blessing Okoro, is that not all you see on social media is real. There is a lot of fakery and fraud on social media. Those who feel inadequate, depressed, or frustrated because they are measuring themselves against the appearances and visuals portrayed on social media should take note. Their peers who display a flashy lifestyle of success on Facebook may not be what they want their Fecebook interlocutors to believe. Those who feel like they’ve failed after seeing their friends pose by a Hummer or a Range Rover Evoque or a Porshe or a mansion on Facebook and Instagram should look beyond the razzmatazz of social media and find happiness in what and who they are. Source: Facebook