By Yemi Itodo Abuja – Senator representing Delta Central, Ovie Omo-Agege and Member representing Chanchaga federal constituency of Niger state, Hon. Umar Bago, have attributed the victory of President Muhammad Buhari at the last poll and his subsequent inauguration, to his integrity and patriotism. In their separate congratulatory messages, the duo expressed satisfaction over the way the President conducted himself in his first four years in office. Senator Omo-Agege, a deputy Senate President hopeful, specifically noted with a great sense of gratitude that, “Mr. President’s first tenure has been markedly beneficial to our people. In terms of infrastructural development, attention to progressive and peoples-uplifting policies, and upholding integrity as a necessary element of good governance, no federal government in the recent past has shown fidelity to its promises to the Urhobos and the South South in general like the government of President Buhari. “Amongst many others, the Federal University of Petroleum Resources, Effurun (FUPRE), payment of pensions to former staff of Delta Steel Company (DSC), the ongoing dualisation of the Amukpe-Eku-Agbor-Ewu expressway, funding of the Federal Maritime University, Okerenkoko, construction and successful commissioning of the Itakpe-Ujevwu (Udu) standard gauge railway line, and judicious implementation of the government’s Social Investment Programs (SIPs), for our people all testify to the great work Mr. President has done in Urhobo, Delta State and indeed, the entire South South geopolitical zone”. On his part, Hon. Bago said though President Buhari had made three unsuccessful attempts to become the President of Nigeria, but his resilience and patriotism paved way for him. “Your resilience made you President after three attempts, and your patriotism earn you a second term. “Both qualities will combine to take our country to our next level “, Bago, a Speakership hopeful said. They both wished Mr. President and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo a very successful second term in office, while praying for the realisation of good expectations of Nigerians in the NEXT LEVEL.