By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – National Assembly New Media Forum, an umbrella body of the Online Media organisations covering the activities of the National Assembly was on Wednesday inaugurated by the NASS management. The Clark to the National Assembly, Mr Mohammed Ataba Omolori tasked the members of the Forum to exhibit professionalism in the discharge of their duties. Omolori who was represented by the Deputy Director of information, John Gyara expressed concern that social social media has become an avenue for scandal, and warned members of the group to be objective in their reportage and not to allow themselves to be cornered into publishing any unverified story. According to him, “Most of the things Journalist do in the legislature cannot happen in other arms of government”. He therefore reminded that a very stringent measure would be put in place to ensure that only those credible Online platforms will be accredited to cover the activities of the national assembly. Earlier in his welcome address, the Chairman of the Forum, Price Yemi Itodo who commended the management of the National Assembly for finally inaugurating the forum after about two years of its existence, informed that the essence of the Forum is for easy coordination of Online Journalists within the National Assembly; vis-à-vis assisting the management in regulating the influx and activities of Online Journalists around the complex, with the view to checking quackery and fake Journalists. Itodo while emphasizing the importance of the Forum in dissemination of information reminded that it has not that purpose that the leadership of the 8th Assembly in its wisdom, created an office for, and appointed Special Assistants on New Media to the Senate President and Honourable Speaker, in addition to existing offices such as Special Adviser on Media and Chief Press Secretary; for effective dissemination of information to the global world through the internet as well as liaising between the online media and their principals. He reiterated that this creation has greatly been of immense benefit to the 8th Assembly and was a great contributor to the success of this Parliament, in the face of increasingly digital and new media evolvement. “This trailblazing precedence, will also inform the leadership of the 9th Assembly on constitution of digital media handlers that would help set narratives for the Parliament in the next four years, he added. Highlight of the occasion was the oath of office administered by the representative of the National Assembly management and supervised by official of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ). The other executive members of the Forum are who took oath of office are: Vice Chairman, Elizabeth Chipi, General Secretary, Haruna Salami, Treasurer, Goodness Adayorcha, Auditor, Chibuike Nwabuko and Welfare Officer,George Okpara.