…Says Buhari,
APC Seek Refuge in Sanctity of Democracy Day By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has
derided the President Muhammadu Buhari Presidency and the All Progressives
Congress (APC) for thinking that moving its planned Presidential inauguration from
May 29 to June 12, the democracy Day, can confer any form of legitimacy to the
outcome of the rigged 2019 Presidential election. The party which also alleged that President Buhari and APC
are seeking refuse in the sanctity of our democracy day disclosed this on
Tuesday in a statement signed by the National Publicity Secretary of the party,
Kola Ologbondiyan sent to Sundiata Post. The PDP also asserted that inviting world leaders to the
inauguration cannot confer international recognition for a stolen mandate. It is clear that the Buhari Presidency and the APC, being
tormented by the guilt of violating our electoral processes, can no longer
boldly approach the oath book on May 29, due to the burden of illegitimacy and
now seeks refuge in the sanctity of June 12, our Democracy Day. The Buhari Presidency and the APC from our recent history
have demonstrated that they totally averse to democracy. They should therefore
steer clear of our Democracy Day, having violated all our democratic ethos in
manipulating the Presidential elections and upturning the mandate of the
people; the same injustice which Chief MKO Abiola, the symbol of June 12,
fought and died for. Chief Abiola stood and died for democracy. Any attempt
therefore to schedule any event related to the outcome of the rigged 2019
Presidential election on June 12 would be an open desecration of the sanctity
of the Democracy day and a direct assault to the sensibilities of Nigerians. Moreover, the PDP rejects this absurd desperation by the
Buhari Presidency and the APC to overshadow the import of our Democracy Day and
stifle the quest by Nigerians to vent their anger against the democratic
violations of the APC administration in the last four years. The PDP counsels the Buhari Presidency to note that trying
to seize our Democracy Day cannot confer legitimacy to a rigged election,
neither can it erase the litany of violations including human rights abuses, assault
on democratic institutions, particularly the Legislature and the Judiciary;
clamp down on opposition figures, clipping of the media, extra-judicial
killings, arbitrary arrests and illegal detention of citizens, and the rigging
of the 2019 Presidential election. The PDP wants the Buhari Presidency and the APC to
understand that what is paramount to majority of Nigerians now is the retrieval
of the stolen mandate, which they freely gave to Atiku Abubakar, at the
tribunal so that our nation can enjoy the values of freedom, justice, fairness
and equity embedded in our constitutional democracy.