The Department of State Services, DSS has disclaimed a memo claiming it indicted Justice Zainab Bulkwachuwa, the president of the Court of Appeal, of alleged acts of corruption and cautioned the media to be wary of politicians determined to use the secret service to achieve their goals. The DSS in a statement on Saturday insisted that there was no such memo on Justice Bulkwachuwa as it vowed to launch an investigation into the report. Justice Bulkwachuwa is the chairman of the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal which is hearing the petition filed by Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP and four other candidates against the return of Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress, APC as president of the country. She is also married to Muhammadu Bulkwachuwa, who was also returned on the platform of the APC as senator-elect for Bauchi North. The PDP had upon the marital relationship asked her in a memo to step down from the position that she could not be seen to carry out justice fairly. Meanwhile, the DSS reacting to the report by a national newspaper that she was indicted of corruption in a memo prepared by the secret agency in a statement issued by its spokesman, Peter Afunanya, said: “the DSS categorically states that the said Memo only exists in the imagination of the writers and should be roundly disregarded by the reading public. “It is unfortunate that the Newspaper followed unethical ways to publish this falsehood. It is rather curious and indeed condemnable that the Newspaper did not reach out to the Service for its comments as would have been expected in a reportage of this nature. “The Service has, nonetheless, launched a detailed investigation into the controversies surrounding the said publication. “It is the wish of the Service that it is left out of the maneuvers of politicians who are hereby advised to abide by the rule of law and respect the entire process of electoral litigations regarding the activities of the tribunal. “While it (the Service) will continue to collaborate with the media as strategic partners in nation building, it admonishes practitioners to be lawful and professional in the execution of their responsibility. “However, mischief makers, intent on causing disaffection in the polity are warned to desist from such acts as the full weight of the law will be visited on defaulters. “The DSS remains unwavering in providing the enabling environment for the pursuit of legitimate aspirations by well meaning and law abiding members of the populace.” Source