…Says He Came to Deliver Letter From Venezuelan Leader to Buhari Abuja (Sundiata Post) – President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday met behind closed doors with former Governor of Abia State and Senator-elect, Orji Uzor Kalu at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Speaking with State House
correspondents at the end of the meeting, Kalu insisted he would seek election
for the office of the Deputy Senate President in the ninth National Assembly. According to him, he was
at the villa to deliver to President Buhari, a letter from the Venezuelan
leader, Nicolas Maguro. He said, “It was a very
brief one. I am sure since he became President, I have never been to his
office, and this is the first time, I have always seen him in private as a
private citizen. “I have come to see Mr.
President, and I acted like a special envoy now. I delivered a letter from
President Maduro of Venezuela to President Buhari.” He said that he was
waiting on the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to zone the
position of Deputy Senate President, but that he will contest on the floor if
they failed to do so. He said, “Well, I am
going to be contesting on the floor of the senate. I am waiting for the part to
zone, and if the party continues to hold it, and don’t zone it, I will contest
on the floor of the house”. Commenting on support for
the election of the next Senate President, Kalu said he has since thrown his
weight behind the emergence of the candidacy of Ahmed Lawan. He said fifty-six
senators have already appended their signatures in support for Lawan while two
others who are presently in Makkah were being awaited to lend their support. “I have already endorsed
Ahmed Lawan as the senate president. That is sacrosanct in my mind, and I am
appealing to the other parties, let us have only one candidate in the Senate
instead of going to drag about. “So, we are on course,
yesterday, when I returned from Venezuela, Ahmed Lawan was with me in the
house, and I became the fifty-six APC Senator to endorse him and signed. “As I am talking to you
now we are having two more people who are in Makka, one senator from Katsina
and the other from Lagos. It is fifty-eight senators that are going to be
signing in, and we have the majority to make him Senate president,” he noted. He said that he expects a
cordial relationship between the legislature and the executive. He also explained that
the support of the lawmakers to the executive would not be a blind one. “Well, we are going to
expect a lot of cooperation between the legislature and the executive and I am
sure as most of you know very well, we are going to do bi-partisan support. “Not a blind support in
any way to the executive but we are going to have an excellent working
relationship, where we follow the rules of the house and the rules of the
executive,” he said. Asked if he has any
advice for President Buhari on the calibre of people to select as ministers in
the next administration, Kalu said the President was experienced enough to make
a good choice. He said, “The President
has been a president before, as a military man and now a civilian. He is very
experienced to choose his ministers, and I am not going to be working with them
unless if there is any individual Mr. President wants a piece of advice on. “If there is not any, the
President is very capable through our local party on who to appoint as a
minister. I am excited he will choose capable people. “My interest is to
rebuild the economy because the economy is part of the reasons why we are
having security challenges. “So, I will focus on
things that will put stimulus to the economy, where the economy will be
buoyant, and people would see that the expansion of the economy is important to
our society” he said