By Chibuike
Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – 
The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has berated the Minister of Information
and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed for misleading the nation and heating up the
polity with unfounded security breach allegations against the PDP and our
Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, asking him to apologize to Nigerians. The PDP made the demand on Wednesday in a statement signed
by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan sent to Sundiata Post. The party said that with the assurances on Monday, that the
nation was safe for the Presidential inauguration, Alhaji Mohammed has further
exposed the fact that he, acting for the Federal Government, only conjured
claims to create the impression that the PDP and Atiku Abubakar had set security
breaches against the Presidential inauguration. Allegations that have vanished like
what they are – phantoms! “It is indeed lamentable that in its desperation to secure
acceptance from Nigerians and confer legitimacy to the outcome of a rigged election,
the Buhari administration would manufacture and purvey fake news to the public,
only for Nigerians to learn from the same Minister of Information and Culture,
that his earlier claims against the PDP and our Presidential candidate were not
based on any concrete evidence but, according to him, on having “no reasons to
doubt” claims by other individuals. “Moreover, the minister’s claims that he relied on certain
alarms fell flat as no agency in the country had ever accused the PDP, as a
political party, or our Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, of “doing
everything possible to sabotage the Buhari Administration, generally overheat
the polity and make Nigeria seemingly ungovernable” as claimed by Lai Mohammed. “It is now clear that the whole essence of the misleading
allegation was to heat up the system, attempt to cow democratic voices, divert
public discourse from the rigging of the Presidential election and scare the
PDP and our Presidential candidate from pursuing our stolen Presidential
mandate at the court. The party also expressed fears that Alhaji Lai Mohammed
could have made those wild claims in a bid to pave the way to frame, harass,
arrest and detain some opposition figures on trump-up charges. “Such antics have failed as Nigerians have seen through them
and are resolute, behind Atiku Abubakar, in the determination to retrieve his
mandate in the court, and no form of blackmail and intimidation will detract
from that resolve. “By his fabricated claims, the Information Minister only
succeeded in further de-marketing our dear nation in the international arena,
causing more damage to investors’ confidence in our system and exposing this
administration as purveyor of fake news. The PDP therefore invites Alhaji Lai Mohammed to apologize
to the nation and desist from such acts of incitement, the statement read.