By
Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja
(Sundiata Post) –  The Kano State
government has launched a fresh probe to scrutinize the expenses of the Kano Emirate
Council from 2013 to 2019. The
probe was initiated by the Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption
Commission, according to a letter dated May 2, and signed by the commission’s
head of operations, Suleiman Gusau. According
to Premium Times, a top official in the commission, who asked not to be named,
confided that the letter has been sent to the emirate council, inviting some
officials to come and “clarify some issues.” The
letter invited top emirate officials including Mohammad Kwaru (accountant of
the council); Mannir Sanusi (chief of staff to the emir); Isa Sanusi (former
principal private secretary and half-brother to the emir) and Mujittaba Falakin
Kano (private secretary to the emir), to shed light on spending from 2013 to
2019. The
officials are expected to honour the commission’s invitation on Thursday, May
9, by 12 p.m. at the headquarters of the agency. Mismanagement of funds? The letter indicated the commission invited the
aforementioned staff for an alleged violation of section 26 of its enabling law
in the management of emirate’s funds. It also stated that the invitation was based on the power
conferred to it under “Section 9 and 15 of Kano State Public Complaints and
Anti-corruption Commission Law 2008 (as amended).” The commission and the state assemby had earlier started a
similar investigation, which many believed were moves to ‘dethrone’ Mr Sanusi,
an outspoken leader. Mr Sanusi was a former governor of the Central Bank of
Nigeria. While he held sway under the Jonathan administration, he often
revealed acts of fraud in the economy which did not endear him to many. Since
assuming the throne, he has also constantly put the authorities on their toes
through regular criticism of government policies. Additional Emirates The current move comes just hours after the Kano Assembly
formed a committee to look into the possibility of creating four additional emirates
in the state in order to whittle down the emir’s powers. In a plenary session on Monday, Speaker of the House, Kabiru
Rurum, read a letter signed by one Ibrahim Salisu “and others”, seeking the
creation of new emirates in Karaye, Bichi, Rano and Gaya. A former governor of Kano, Abubakar Rimi, had once created
additional emirates in Karaye, Rano and Gaya during the reign of the late Emir
Ado Bayero. But this was later revoked by his successor, Sabo Bakinzuwo. Recall that on Monday,
The Cable in an exclusive reported that: ““The governor Ganduje of Kano Stat  is determined to remove the emir, and if this
does not succeed, he will break the emirate into pieces to whittle down
Sanusi’s power,” an official of the state government, who asked not to be
named, told TheCable on Monday evening. Ironically, Ganduje’s
move to break the emirate into smaller units will mirror what Abiola Ajimobi,
the outgoing governor of Oyo state, did to the olubadan of Ibadan, Saliu
Adetunji, whose authority Ajimobi sought to decimate by approving 21 beaded
kings for Ibadan. Ganduje and Ajimobi are
in-laws. FOREIGN
TRIPS Emir Sanusi’s problem
with Ganduje is usually traced to his critical comments in 2017 on the award of
contracts to Chinese companies by the state government and on the governor’s
foreign trips. According to The Cable, “Shortly
after the comment, the Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption
Commission alleged the misappropriation of N6billion by the Kano emirate
council “without the approval of the state government”. The probe was halted
then but it has now been revived. Sanusi II is believed to
have opposed the re-election of Ganduje, who needed a disputed supplementary
election to be returned to office in the March 2019 governorship election.