By Nicholas Dechi Makurdi – Gov. Samuel Ortom of Benue has called on Benue residents to support his administration by always paying their taxes as and at when due. Ortom made the call on Wednesday in Makurdi during his second term inauguration. He said that funds generated from the payment of taxes would be channeled to the development of the state. The governor disclosed that his administration had introduced Treasury Single Account (TSA) in the state as one of the ways to block revenue leakages and improve on Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). He further promised to provide adequate security to ensure safety of lives and property. The governor and called on security operatives in the state to nip kidnapping and other crimes in the state in the bud. He also urged traditional rulers to cooperate with the security agencies and prevent kidnappers from operating in their domains. ”The state Chief Judge and the judiciary should not take the call for the elimination of kidnapping and other crimes in the state for granted. “The offenders should be dealt with decisively in accordance with the law,” he said. Ortom said that he would ensure that the security and welfare of the people living in the state are guaranteed provided they respected the laws of the state. He promised to be governor to both the rich and the poor, the Fulani herdsmen, the farmers and other ethnic nationalities living in the state. He, however, said that the Anti-Open Grazing Law 2017 had come to stay. According to him, anyone who violates the law, regardless of his or her origin would be made to face the full wrath of the law. ”The law is not targeted at anyone or group rather it is meant to protect both farmers and animal rearers in the state,” he said. The governor noted that the gains of his second term would be enormous, adding that they had learnt a lot of lessons from the mistakes made during his first term. ”My second term is an opportunity to right the wrongs. Though the challenges are enormous but the determination to achieve great things for the state is also high,” he said. Ortom promised to retun all the schools not owned by the state government to their owners during the first term in the 2019/2020 academic year. He described education as the bedrock of every society without which no society could witness any meaningful development. Mr Benson Abounu, the Deputy Governor, while giving the vote of thanks, commended Benue residents for their resilience and for supporting the party during the last general elections. (NAN)