By Kadiri Abdulrahman Abuja – The National Agency for Food and  Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) has uncovered an illegal factory at Akwa Ibom that produces and circulates fake alcoholic beverages. NAFDAC Director General, Prof. Moji Adeyeye, in a statement  on
Friday in Abuja,  said that the factory was discovered at Afaha Obong in
Abak Local Government Area. Adeyeye disclosed that the factory, located in that remote community
had been falsifying and circulating various brands of alcoholic
beverages for several years unhindered until stakeholders lodged a
report at NAFDAC. “NAFDAC has uncovered an illegal factory which specialises in
falsifying and circulating fake alcoholic beverages at Afaha Obong, Abak
LGA  of Akwa Ibom. “We gathered that the factory had existed in the remote village for
years, producing fake alcoholic beverages of local and foreign brands
unhindered. “Agents of Diego Nigeria Limited, distributors of Hennessy, Black
Label and Baileys lodged a consumer’s complaints and that led to the
discovery of the factory,’’ she said. Adeyeye said NAFDAC team was able to penetrate the area due to the security back up by the Nigeria police force. She said that evidences of the falsification of different brands were
discovered at the location, adding that, though the proprietor of the
factory escaped, his wife was arrested. According to the DG, thousands of empty bottles of different brands
of alcoholic beverages, labels, empty cartons of drinks, cocks and
already finished products were found in the premises. “The kingpin,  Mr Peter Etokakpan was not found during the raid but
his wife , Mrs. Uyime Etokakpan, who is also a partner in the illegal
business was arrested. She added that NAFDAC officials could not enter the production room
due to the heavy metal barricade and threat of violence created by the
arrested woman. “It was almost leading to a riotous situation as young men and women
started almost , violently to  attack the NAFDAC team,’’ she said. She said that the case would be transferred to the Enforcement Directorate of NAFDAC for further action. The DG said that the NAFDAC team also uncovered another alcoholic
beverage factory; Sir Bigman Industries Limited, producers of Bigman
products at Ikot Ekpene. “The company was previously registered by NAFDAC but its license had
expired and the owner started faking other companies’ products which
they produced in a very unhygienic condition,’’ she said. She warned counterfeiters to desist from their unwholesome practice
and commence registration processes if they were interested in producing
or circulating any NAFDAC regulated product.