By Oluwaseyi Oduneye-Ogunwomoju Ibadan   –      Adeshola Ademiloye, the Project Coordinator  Ibadan Bridal Fashion Week says there is the need to create a platform  for local bridal designers to thrive. Ademiloye spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in
 Ibadan, ahead of first Ibadan Bridal Fashion week scheduled to hold 
from July 19 to July 21. “Ibadan Bridal Fashion Week is the first in Ibadan and second in Nigeria as a whole. “We saw the need to encourage and create a platform for our local 
bridal designers, to create a platform they can showcase their works to 
the world at large. “The aim is to be able to push the Nigerian fashion and bridal industry to the world. “To encourage young designers and to contribute immensely to the 
fashion industry in Nigeria by promoting made in Nigeria wedding and 
bridal wears,” he said. He added that the Ibadan Bridal Fashion Week will enhance forth be an annual event after this years maiden edition. “We intend continuing the event, after this  maiden edition,” he said. He added that the Nigerian designers have all it takes to design world class wedding gowns “This is so because the client wants the best over their neighbors. 
So Nigerians have their story to tell, they communicate it with the 
designer who makes it a reality. “Nigerian designers are the best in world and are making great design and impression wherever they find themselves. “We are not competing again; we are dictating the trends all round 
the world. Most fashion brands in Europe have Nigerians at the helms of 
its affair. ` Mai Atafo, Lannre Da-Silva are showing us that here and a lot of other names that I can’t mention,” he said. Ibadan - No fewer than eight Nigerian fashion designers put on show designs and the best of African fashion for kids and teenagers at the 2015 African Kids and Teens Fashion Week in Ibadan. The event, held on Dec. 27 at Mauve 21 Event Centre, Ibadan, featured various innovations and… December 28, 2015 In "Style" ABUJA - The Minister of Culture, Tourism and National Orientation, Chief  Edem Duke, says all is set for the hosting of the 2014 African Fashion Reception in Nigeria. Duke said this while hosting members of the World Fashion Organisation led by Mr Lexy Mojo-Eyes, the Founder of Branzuk Gold, in… June 11, 2014 In "Entertainment" As Africa Fashion Week New York enters its final day, Ventures Africa engages one of the event’s top stars Nigerian London-based designer Hazel Eki Aggrey-Orleans to shed light on the status of the Fashion industry in Africa. The owner of London-based fashion-label Eki Orleans, Hazel was born in Germany, raised… September 9, 2014 In "Business"