By Chidinma Ewunonu-Aluko Ibadan – Dr Saethre May-Guri, the Deputy Director-General, International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA)’s Research for Development, Ibadan, has emphasised the need to eliminate Green House gas to mitigate the effect of Climate Change on the African continent. May-Guri gave this advice on Tuesday at the 22nd symposium of the International Association of Research Scholars and Fellows (IARSAF), held at the (IITA), Ibadan. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the theme of the symposium
is: “Innovative agricultural research for food security and climate
change mitigation in Sub-Saharan Africa.’’ She said that early career and upcoming researchers in Africa should
aim at conducting researches that would meet the global, continental
challenges, such as climate change. May-Guri noted that the practical, theoretical suggestions that would
be discussed at the symposium were expected to help in contributing to
food security and mitigate climate change in Africa. “IITA expresses appreciation to all IARSAF members, scientists, friends who contributed to the success of the symposium. “We assure you of our continued support in driving the research for
development at the centre to ensure Africa succeeds in transforming its
agriculture in a sustainable, innovative way for a better future,” she
said. Also speaking, the Chairman of the occasion, who is also the founder
of Akin Fagbemi Foundation, Ibadan, Dr Stephen Fagbemi, said the effects
of climate change on the continent would have worst impacts on its
agricultural production. Fagbemi, represented by the former IARSAF President, Mr Taofeek
Adegboyega, noted that climate change place stress on forests, which
were under pressure from population growth, expansion of agricultural
practices and commercial logging. He therefore urged scientists in Africa and partners to develop
drought, heat-resistant crops, improved livestock breeds and new soil
techniques, water conservation management. In her keynote address, a Professor of Rural Sociology, Janice
Olawoye, said activities such as: cutting down forests, bush burning,
gas flaring, had directly and negatively impacted on the environment. Olawoye said that the causes and effects of climate change were
multi-faceted involving social, political, economic and environmental
sectors. She however underscored the need for gender mainstreaming in climate
change policy formation, research activities, project development and
for training at all levels. According to her, some formal adaptation strategies to tackle climate
change were provision of early warning weather forecast, promotion of
drought resistant crops, use of  Bio-gas, among others. She further urged individuals to always plant trees to absorb much of
carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and take proper care of their
environment to prevent further degradation of the environment. Earlier, the IARSAF President, Dr Sanni Afolabi, said the association
was a platform for fellows, early career researchers to showcase their
research and brainstorm on crucial issues affecting agriculture in
Africa, with the aim of providing innovative solutions to the problems. He said the theme was chosen to address the impact of climate change
on food security and hidden hunger (malnutrition) in Africa. According to him,  the training will include, training on
grant-winning proposal writing, training on scientific engagement,
advancement to be handled by well seasoned professionals.