Today, Nigeria will inaugurate an illegitimate president who unashamedly stole someone else’s electoral mandate in broad daylight. Buhari (whom most people now call “Buharig” because of the unprecedentedly crude electoral heist he perpetrated in February) and the cabal of corrupt, clueless, and unconscionable provincials who rule on his behalf instructed their minions to rig the last presidential election because they knew Buhari had not a snowball’s chance in hell of winning the election. In spite of their rigging, however, Buhari still came up short. He lost to Atiku by nearly 2 million votes from their own rigged figures. So he ordered INEC to invent arbitrary figures and proclaim him winner. And degenerate, unprincipled, and morally compromised Mahmood Yakubu who has gone down in the annals as the absolute worst and most detestable INEC chairman Nigeria has ever had obliged dutifully. That’s why nearly three months after the election, INEC has not had the courage to share the raw data of the election with the public. It’s because the numbers won’t add up. They’re still frantically fudging the figures to justify the fraudulent figures they assigned to presidential candidates. To be sure, this isn’t the first time elections were rigged in Nigeria. In fact, all previous elections have been rigged. Nevertheless, in past rigged presidential elections, the winners would still have won even if the elections were free and fair. It was overzealousness and the absence of restraining mechanisms against electoral manipulation that enabled their rigging. Buhari’s electoral theft is the first time since 1999 that a presidential candidate who lost an election by a massive margin has been declared winner. From today, I’ll stop to call Buhari Nigeria’s president because he is NOT. He is a shameless mandate thief, a fascistic geriatric conman. Because he lacks legitimacy to rule again, expect the official inauguration of fascist totalitarianism in the coming days, weeks, months, and years. This is by far the darkest period in the history of Nigeria’s democracy. I commiserate with Nigerians who are witnessing the brutal annihilation of the faintest vestiges of democracy in their country by an inept, illegitimate fraud who is held hostage by an irreversible mental and cognitive decline as evidenced, yet again, in the tediously rambling disaster of an interview he gave yesterday where he couldn’t tell Nigerians who he is. Source: Facebook