By Olanrewaju Akojede Lagos – The Chairman and Games Captain of the Swimming Section, Ikoyi 1938, Oloyede Obatoyinbo, on Friday said that the 4th Zenith Bank/Ikoyi Swimming Competition would raise the bar of grassroots development of swimming in Nigeria. Obatoyinbo made the assertion in an interview with the News Agency of
Nigeria (NAN) on the heels of the expectations from the competitions
scheduled to take place on Saturday. NAN reports that the 4th edition of the grassroots swimming
developmental programme, sponsored by the Zenith Bank and Ikoyi Club
1938, will take off at the swimming section of the club. The competition is expected to have 250 young swimmers from 18
schools that comprises of 12 primary schools and six secondary schools
in Lagos. Obatoyinbo said that the competition was more than ordinary, adding
that it had since produced great talents who had represented the country
at international meets. “When talking about grassroots development of swimming in Nigeria,
Ikoyi Club stands out and has been able to raise the bar because some of
the discoveries from the tournament have gone to represent the country. “There is an example of two discoveries in 2017 during the swimming
competition. The duo went ahead to represent the country at the African
Championships in Egypt where they did well. “Also swimmers from this club represented the country at the World
Inter-Club Competition in Arnsberg, Germany, where they emerged the
overall winners from among 30 swimming clubs all over the world. “It is such a big achievement which clearly states that we are doing
it right with the competition. We are discovering talents needed to take
Nigeria to places with the sport,’’ he said. Obatoyinbo said that the 4th edition of the junior swimming
competition would not be an exception of the last edition, adding that
he expected a healthy competition among the young swimmers. “This year’s edition is expected to reach a new height just like the
past edition. The schools are ready to slug it out among themselves. We
also expect to see records broken. “This is the only grassroots developmental swimming competition in
Nigeria as at now, because it will help in sharpening the skills of our
young swimmers. “It provides the opportunity for our young swimmers to display their
talents and also prepare them for the future challenges,’’ he said.