By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – A group under the auspices of Buhari Media Organisation (BMO), has blasted former President Atiku Abubakar over alleged attempt by his media handlers to compare him to late Alex Ekwueme and late Moshood Abiola as belonging to the same class of democrats. The group which
described such comparison as “evil comparison disclosed this on Sunday in a
statement signed by Niyi Akinsiju and
Casiddy Madueke, Chairman and
Secretary respectively sent to Sundiata Post. The statement reads: The Presidential
candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Atiku Abubakar is not in the
same democratic league with the late Moshood Abiola or Dr Alex Ekwueme. The
Buhari Media Organisation (BMO) says it is evil for anyone to make such
comparison. The
group, in a statement in Abuja, said the comparison that Atiku media handlers
are trying to sell to Nigerians is totally off the mark because facts on the
ground do not support this position they made in response to Federal
Government’s allusion to Atiku as a threat to the nation’s democracy. In
the statement signed by its Chairman, Niyi Akinsiju and Secretary Casiddy
Madueke, BMO said this is just another attempt to rewrite history in order to
paint Atiku in good light. “It
is laughable that Atiku media handlers could attempt to configure a
not-too-recent history by passing off Atiku Abubakar, not only as a democrat,
but to also compare him with more distinguished Nigerians like Moshood Abiola
and Alex Ekwueme both of blessed memory. “We
know they have a job to do and we don’t envy them at all. Anyone that is
saddled with the task of painting a good picture of a serially tainted
politician would throw words around and hope that no one would notice the
fallacies. “Atiku’s
political antecedents cannot be associated with that of a democrat. Here is a
man that is willing to move and has actually moved three times between two
different ruling parties and the opposition after failing to have his way. “None
of the people his media men have name-checked in their recent statement has had
to change parties to satisfy a selfish desire. Both men were known to have
suffered perceived injustices in their political journey, but like true
democrats, they stayed back to help build their respective political parties. “Atiku
is a dangerously desperate politician that is known to have threatened violence
at a forum in Abuja, shortly after he lost the PDP Presidential ticket in a
bitter contest to the then President Goodluck Jonathan before the 2011
election. “Before
then, there was an unprecedented intra-party acrimony that was so characterised
by mudslinging that the then opposition Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) had to
issue a statement calling for peace in the ranks of the ruling PDP. “These
facts are very much in the public domain, so it is preposterous that the Atiku
camp is seeking to feed Nigerians with a red herring,” the group said. BMO
also wondered why the former Vice president and his media handlers would seek
to rubbish history with false narratives on the actual role he played in the
dying days of military rule. “His
media aides want Nigerians to believe that he joined forces with MKO Abiola and
Ekwueme to fight the then Abacha dictatorship, but nothing could be farther
from the truth. “Nigerians
would recall that Atiku Abubakar was a ranking member of the Social Democratic
Party (SDP) on whose platform Abiola ran for the Presidency on June 12 1993,
but since he lost out in his bid to be the running mate to Abiola, he clearly
went off the political radar and was not even known to play a major role in the
electioneering campaigns. “There
was also no record of his participation in efforts spearheaded by activists to
force the military government to respect the wish of the people, neither was he
one of those who publicly took on Abacha when he usurped power. “And
even when Ekwueme took up the gauntlet to lead the political opposition against
the late General Abacha, Atiku was never part of the politicians in the
forefront of an initiative that began as G9 but later metamorphosed into G18
and G34 respectively. “The
best he did was his less than inspiring membership of the 1994 Constitutional
Conference which had Ekwueme as the leading light, but which was largely
boycotted by members of his own party who were insisting on the June 12
mandate.” The
group maintained that the only time Atiku and Ekwueme could be mentioned in the
same sentence is when a list of the country’s former Vice Presidents is drawn. “Yes
both of them were Vice Presidents at different times but Nigerians know that
while one is the epitome of loyalty and had been acknowledged by his principal,
the other had on several occasions been described in uncomplimentary terms by
his own.”