…Stresses that Audu Ogbeh Should
Relocate to Katsina after Tenure By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – A newly formed group under the
auspices of Ethnic Nationalities Defence Organization (ENDO) has moved to avert
alleged land grabbing and Jihad expansion agenda which is being advanced in
Nigeria usingBoko Haram and Fulani
herdsmen militia as willing tools. ENDO which warned Buhari government against taking or giving
any inch of ethnic nationalities land for Fulani cattle ranch or grazing, also
stressed that  Audu Ogbe should be ready
to resettle in Katsina after his tenure as Minister of Agriculture. The group gave the warning in a statement signed by its
President, David Maiyaki, Director information/Strategy, Freedom Musa and Director
of Operation, Nehemiah Maihaikali, reminded that Boko Haram and Fulani herdsmen
militia are brothers in arms against the ethnic nationalities of Nigeria. Endo therefore vowed to do everything possible to protect,
defend and retaliate on any affront against the ethnic nationalities of Nigeria
or their territories. The statement reads in full: “We have observed with sadness over the years and especially
since the emergence of the President Muhammad Buhari’s administration the
targeted annihilation of the ethnic minorities in Nigeria. We have since
realized that both Boko Haram and the Fulani herdsmen militia are brothers in
arms against the ethnic nationalities of Nigeria in a brazen land grabbing and
expansionist Fulani jihad. It is evident that Boko Haram and Fulani militia have not
only infiltrated the government of Nigeria, but government is directly or
indirectly aiding and supporting daily evil perpetrated against the ethnic
nationalities. Government rebranding of terrorist and Fulani militia as
hoodlums or criminal elements does not change who truly they are. There are
evidence of military killer squads targeting ethnic nationalities apart from
the recycling of released terrorists into the Nigerian security or Fulani
militia. The government’s negotiations with Boko Haram and release of
billions for them to be empowered is calculated and deliberate. Recent
government negotiations to settle Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association
with over N100 billion through one of their own agent, Gen. Abdulrahman
Danbazau (retd), the Interior Minister is not a surprise to us. We know who he
is! No matter how much you give the terrorist from our sovereign wealth to arm
their armoury and mercenaries, they can never take our ancestral land and each
of you will pay. Let it be on record that we have decided to form the Ethnic
Nationalities Defence Organization (ENDO) to protect, defend and retaliate on
any affront against the ethnic nationalities of Nigeria or our territories. Let
us warn the Buhari government or any foolish governor against taking or giving
any inch of ethnic nationalities land for Fulani cattle ranch or grazing. They
should graze in their states of origin. Meanwhile, Audu Ogbe should be ready to
resettle in Katsina after his tenure as Minister of Agriculture. Lastly, we call on all ethnic nationalities to form their
defence groups or militia or be ready to lose their ancestral lands after being
killed as cowards and chickens in the hands of either the compromised Nigerian
Army or Fulani militia and terrorists. Ours is, an eye for and eye and 10 for
1. Let’s see, who has the monopoly of violence. Ours is non-negotiable until
the evil against all ethnic nationalities by government and Fulani herdsmen
militia is halted. Sign: David Maiyaki President Freedom Musa Director information/Strategy Nehemiah Maihaikali Director of Operation