Senator-elect for Delta North Senatorial District, Prince Ned Nwoko married all of his six wives as virgins, Regina Daniels being the newest of his wives, Frontline News Online has been told. According to sources close to the former member of the House of Representatives, he places chastity high on his list of preferences, when picking a wife. As disclosed by a confidant, Ned has had children with his lovers but only considers marriage if he met the said partner a virgin. Unknown to many, Senator Nwoko married all his wives as virgins, taking them in as 18-year olds. How Regina Daniels Met Sen. Nwoko The marriage between Nollywood actress, Regina Daniels and the Sen. Nwoko trended for days online. On how the duo met, according to Abuja Reporters, Regina, her mother and brothers visited the Delta state country home of the Udumuje-Ugboko born Prince, like many who throng his country home in admiration of its beauty. Thiers was a chance meeting, one that would transform the life of the family and that of the Prince who was said to have taken to the Nollywood starlet immediately. Sources say that Nwoko who isn’t much of a Nollywood fan, didn’t know that the young pretty lady, who looked innocent was a big name in the movie industry. They met a couple of times after the chance meeting. It was in the course of these meetings that the billionaire Prince was able to find out some of the things he needed from the lady before proposing to her, according to Abuja Reporters. As mentioned earlier, Prince Nwoko loves chastity, making easy for him to decide on marrying Regina. Why Prince Nwoko Wedded Regina Daniels Within A Month Of Meeting Her Our source also confirmed that exactly three weeks after they met, the wine- carrying event which is the first step, preceding the wedding proper, took place. This was about eight weeks ago. Already plans are afoot for the final marriage rights. For your information, for Ned’s other wives, the courtship was even shorter as he married most of them after two weeks of courtship. We also scooped that it didn’t take the pretty actress long to be persuaded to join the Ned family, same way her own family gave their tacit approval to the relationship. Unlike the story that has been spread around, insiders also confirmed that the pretty actress is not yet pregnant. One thing that seemed to gladden the heart of the Senator- in – waiting however is the relationship among the family, especially the way the actress was assimilated into the family as if she had always been there. A source who knows the house inside out informed us that he saw the actress swimming together with her stepchildren as well as her own sister who was just learning to swim and they clattered away in chatter oblivious of outsiders. Sen. Nwoko To Sponsor Regina Daniel’s Movie Projects Sources also confirmed that as it stands, Regina Daniels’ acting career might have taken a huge notch upwards with the marriage as her husband has promised to back her with everything at his disposal. Now, she might not be running round locations to satisfy any producer, rather she is likely to be producing her own films and she is also likely to get such films marketed abroad as the husband is believed to have told people that his contacts in the UK where he runs a chamber and own homes will be made available to her. With homes in and outside Nigeria, any setting she needs for the shooting of her films would be made available only for the asking. One other issue is the fact that she is most likely not to be seen on local flights again as the husband has put at her service a private jet to take her around any time she wants to fly. When asked why he had to do this Ned was said to have told a friend that anything that belongs to him belongs to her also and there was no way he would be enjoying the services of his two private jets while his wife would be flying in public planes. His attitude to this, according to our source is that, if the family has to fly economy let all of us fly economy, if we have to fly First Class, let’s do it together and if we have to use the jet, it has to be for the whole family, there is no discrimination. This, the source added has also helped in the bonding within the family. Even Ned’s older children seemed to have taken a likeness for the actress despite the short time they have been together as they exchange banters. Seeing them together, you would think they have been together for ages. One of Ned Nwoko’s associates also confirmed that the whole family welcomed the new addition and there is no reason for anyone to feel out of place. This, according to him is because Ned would never tell any of the wives that she is going to be the last he would marry and so there is no way any of them would wake up and claim she has been disappointed. However, in all these Regina’s position as the latest and youngest wife and by far the most visible continues to attract debates. For the couple, they are getting used to it, after all, they had always been in the eyes of the media before they consummated their relationship. Source: Frontlinenews.com