After 33 years of marriage of which were spent separately, Taiwo Dosumu and his wife, Omolara are no longer husband and wife. This is according to the order of a Mapo Customary Court in a Mapo Customary Court in Ibadan, the Oyo State Capital. The President of the Court, Mr. Ademola Odunade granted the order of the estranged husband who alleges threat to life and constant spiritual attack by the wife. But the wife and the only surviving daughter who has since been married begged the court not to dissolve the union based on the fact that the woman had spent a better part of her life in the marriage. But the presiding officer ruled against them. According to him “the union between Taiwo and Omolara has ceased to be in the interest of peaceful living. He also ordered the husband to pay N5,000 to Omolara to enable her move her belongings away from the house.” In his petition to the court, Dosumu, a businessman and resident of Orita-Challenge in Ibadan, said his wife was retarding his progress and therefore, could no longer cope with her. The estranged husband said he informed his former wife of my plans to make it again, “but I caught her saying; ‘You have not yet seen the worst.’ He said the backing of his mother has been protecting him from the evil plans his wife while the marriage lasted. “While in Japan, I bought a gold jewelery for N1m. Omolara kept it away from me when I needed to sell it because I was in need. Despite the fact that I sent a lot of money to her when our first child was sick, Omolara squandered the money until the child died. For the past nine years, I abandoned the home for her because she hasn’t stopped threatening my life,” he claimed. The respondent, who opposed the dissolution of the marriage, however, did not deny any of the allegations leveled against her. Omolara argued that her husband was such a wicked man who wanted her to suffer in the twilight of her life. “The respondent, who opposed the dissolution of the marriage, however, did not deny any of the allegations leveled against her. Source