By Christian Njoku Calabar, – The Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Dr Usani Usani, on Tuesday inaugurated 40 units of two-bedroom and three-bedroom housing estate at Ikpiri Ikang, Bakassi Local Government Area of Cross River. During the inauguration Usani said the intention of the government
was to accommodate those who were deprived such as widows and some of
the Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) in Bakassi LGA. He said the government was building the estate in order to bridge the
gap between the rich and the poor because it was actually concerned
about the welfare of the poor in the society. “A man without an accommodation is like a mad man and will never be able to effectively plan his life. “The government understands this, and by providing social
interventions such as housing, it is also intervening in household
economies,” he said. The minister, however, expressed displeasure that most of the
beneficiaries of the apartments were either not from Bakassi LGA or not
the deprived that the government built the estate for. “Some of the people whose names are on the list of beneficiaries are not supposed to be occupants of these houses. “The reason for building this estate is because the government is trying to achieve housing for all. “We are going to work with the paramount ruler to get the real people who should occupy these houses. “We are also going to give plots of land in the estate to the people
who have been securing it and the community leaders will be given plots
too,” he said. In his remark, the paramount ruler of Bakassi, HRH, Etim Edet, said the estate was just a palliative measure. According to the monarch, the people are still crying out to the
Federal Government to properly resettle those who were forcefully
ejected from their real homes due to the ceding of Bakassi to Cameroon. He, however, thanked the government for the gesture, adding that it
would go a long way in helping many displaced persons from Bakassi. Mr Aminu Bisalla, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Niger Delta
Affairs, who was represented by Mrs Lauren Braid, noted that building
the estate was one of the ministry’s mandates in ensuring good housing
in the Niger Delta. Bisalla said “housing has a multiplier effect on the social economic
welfare of a people and it is one of the central needs of man.” He advised the people of Ikpiri Ikang community to see the estate as their own and continue to secure it.