By Moses Omorogieva Lagos, – Seven motorcyclists were on Saturday arrested for allegedly attacking officials of the Lagos State Task Force on Environment, while 92 motorcycles were impounded for violating traffic laws in the state. The Chairman of the Task Force, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi, confirmed this
on Sunday in a statement signed by the Spokesman of the agency, Mr
Adebayo Taofiq. Egbeyemi said that four Officers of the task force sustained serious injuries during the attack. He said the officials were attacked while clamping down on motorcycle
operators plying restricted routes around Oworonsoki, Adeniji Adele
junction, Obalende, Falomo, Lekki Phase 1 and the Ikoyi link-bridge area
of the state. The chairman said the officials were attacked with stones, bottles
and iron-rods, while on a legitimate mission to arrest motorcycle
operators plying restricted routes. “During the enforcement operation, some suspected motorcyclists
started shouting and calling the attention of their colleagues in their
local language. “Thereafter, other motorcycle operators from nowhere started throwing stones, bottles and iron-rods at my officers. “in the process, two police officers were injured on their heads with
heavy stones, while two other para-military officers were attacked with
broken bottles. “Government will  no longer tolerate the slightest attack on officers
and men of the Agency, as only recently, a police officer with the
Agency died as a result of injuries sustained from miscreants while on
duty around Mile 12,” he said. Egbeyemi appealed to other relevant stakeholders to support the
agency in curbing the “Okada menace,’’ noting that it was now a rude
shock seeing motorcycle operators now struggling for right of way with
motorists. He said the Commissioner of Police in Lagos, CP Zubairu Muazu had
condemned the attack, warning that the Police under his watch would  not
tolerate criminal attacks and assault on its personnel or facilities. Egbeyemi said the CP had, however, directed the chairman of the task
force to immediately charge all those arrested to court for prosecution. “All the arrested suspects have been arraigned in court as directed
by the CP, to serve as deterrent to others who may want to act in like
manner,” Egbeyemi said.