By Segun Giwa Akure – A Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), Blitzik Sports, has said that its basketball clinic was to encourage and tutor students, the rudiments of basketball from their tender age. The organiser and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the NGO, Mr Isaac
Afolabi, made this disclosure at the indoor sport hall of the Ondo State
Sports Complex, Akure on Friday. “Our NGO focuses on sports development, and serves as an advocate of
better welfare packages for the athletes” even as he urged the
government to invest in other sporting activities in addition to
football. Afolabi, who is also a sportswriter, admonished athletes, who were
still active to plan for their retirement age, by acquiring skills or
pursue academic courses that would launch them back to the society. He said some athletes without other skills did not find life so hard
after retirement to the extent that they were not able to meet up with
their bills. Earlier, the General Manager of the Ondo State Sports Council, Mr
Wande Fabuluje, had declared the event open, and urged others to support
the initiator of the clinic in the efforts to develop basketball and
other sports in the state. Fabuluje added that there was the need to groom and showcase God-giving talents deposited in the young ones for future purposes. “Who knows, some of these kids may be the ones to replace some of our ageing athletes,” he said. The Chairman of the Ondo State Basketball Association, Mr Francis
Gbiri, lauded the initiator for his zeal and love for sports
development. Gbiri charged the stakeholders in the sports industry, especially
basketball coaches and players to emulate the gesture and contribute
their quota to the development of the game in the country. In the clinic game, Ondo Kings basketball team defeated Ekiti
Invaders basketball team in a keenly contested friendly game with 25
points against 22 points . The proprietor of Ekiti Invaders, Mr Oyebo Adebowale, however, lauded
the brain behind the clinic, saying: “he has done a great job, the
event afforded the students the opportunity to know that they can go to
school and still participate in any sporting activities”.