Igbo leaders under the aegis of Professor Uzodinma Nwala -led Alaigbo Development Foundation (ADF) have called on all Igbo citizens where ever they may be, as well as their neighbors to observe May 30 as BIAFRA DAY. In a communiqué after a joint meeting with Association of South-East Town Unions (ASETU), the leaders said the day is set aside to remember the spirit of those killed during the Nigeria Civil War. “All those who died for the sake of our freedom during the worst pogrom in history in which Ndigbo and their neighbors lost millions of their citizens and several trillions of naira especially before, during and which has continued since after the Biafra war. “The observation may take various forms according to Igbo tradition and culture without violating any statute. These may include church services, candle-light processions, Sit-at-Home, Wearing of black uniform and black bands, lectures and symposia, etc.” In the communiqué by the ADF President Prof. Uzodinma Nwala and ASETU President, the leaders agreed to establish a joint-machinery for regular consultations and activities to promote development Peace and Security in Igboland. Among other decisions the groups agreed to work together in order to promote the Development, Peace and Security in Igboland include: “To hold regular consultations and joint activities in order to promote the Development of Alaigbo and also ensure the promotion of Peace and Security in Alaigbo. “Call on the Governors and the law enforcement agencies in Alaigbo to ensure the protection of the lives and property of the citizens of the region. “To call the citizens in Alaigbo not to neglect their responsibilities to use available means in ensuring the protection of themselves and all those put under their care by God, especially their wives and children as Self-preservation is the first law of nature. “Call on the Governors, State Assemblies and all local authorities to ensure all necessary enabling environment for investment in Alaigbo in order to promote the flowering spirit of the AKURUO ULO Movement throughout the region. “Call on foreign agencies to assist both government and private organizations in Alaigbo with necessary grants to promote youth empowerment.” (The Nation)