By Clara Egbogota Lagos – Muslim groups on Friday commended the Federal Government for efforts to secure the release of Miss Zainab Aliyu  and Mr Ibrahim Abubakar detained by Saudi Arabian authorities. Aliyu and  Ibrahim Abubakar were arrested in Saudi Arabia on Dec. 25, 2018, after illicit drugs were found in their luggages. The release of Abubakar on Wednesday was confirmed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Abubakar was released to the Acting Consul-General of Nigeria in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, Garba Satomi Grema. Aliyu was released on Tuesday. The Muslim groups said that Nigerians were glad at the intervention of the Federal Government. Nasrul lahi l fatih Society (NASFAT) hailed the government and the
Nigerian Consulate in Saudi Arabia for efforts to secure the release. Mr Banji Busari, the Publicity Secretary of NASFAT, said that proper
investigation should be conducted to unravel the modus operandi of the
syndicate which allegedly planted the banned substances in the luggages. “The uncovering of the most heinous crime by the authorities of the
NDLEA is a significant achievement which could not have come at a better
time than now. “Apart from revealing the deadly can of worms in some of our various
airports, it has helped to save the innocent lives of the hapless young
lady and that of Ibrahim. “So far, statistics reveal that eight Nigerians have been executed in
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in recent time. Another 21 are awaiting the
hangman’s noose if found guilty of several offences related to drug
trafficking,” he said. The official said that NASFAT  would  want  state and the federal
governments to overhaul the security and administrative procedures in 
airports in order  to forestall a similar occurrence. “After the due process has been taken, let justice be done and shown to all Nigerians. “With this, our internal and international image will be preserved,
and there will no longer be cases of miscarriage of justice against
innocent Nigerians,’’ he said. The Director of the Muslims Right Concern, Prof. Ishaq Akintola, also
praised the Federal Government for promptly intervening in the case. “We call on the government  to spread its dragnet to all airports
within the country in the realisation  that  drug-planting cartels are
likely to exist in other airports. “Those caught should be dealt with decisively to serve as a deterrent
to others. In addition, the Zainab Aliyu treatment should not be
limited to Saudi Arabia. “It should be extended to Europe and Asia where many Nigerians are languishing in jail or awaiting execution. Akintola urged the Federal Government to also ensure installation of 
close circuit television cameras in all airports to monitor activities
of criminals.