By Douglas Okoro Abakaliki – The Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), Ebonyi branch has called on the police to investigate  and prosecute Vehicles Inspection Officers(VIOs) who allegedly killed Chief Geoffrey Mgbada, Secretary, Ebonyi Elders Council on Tuesday in Abakaliki. The CDHR made the demand via a statement issued by its State
Secretary, Mr Jeremiah Onyibe,and made available to newsmen in Abakaliki
on Wednesday. CDHR which condemned in strongest term the extra-judicial killing of
Mgbada by the VIOs also called for mental and psychiatric tests and
evaluation of all officers of the Ebonyi VIOs to forestall recurrence. The killer VIOs were arrested and currently undergoing interrogation at the Ebnyi Police Headquarters, Abakaliki. The statement reads in part: “It is really unfortunate that men who
are paid from the tax payers’ money to inspect vehicles on our roads in
order to ensure their road worthiness and thereby reduce the level of
road accidents have turned back to be our killers. “The killing of one of the elder statesmen in Ebonyi has brought into
reality the horror that common people are subjected to in the hands of
these men every day. “It will be unfair to her citizens for the Government of Ebonyi to
claim ignorance of the notorious activities of the vehicles inspection
officers which it earlier proscribed after their activities that led to
the death of some tanker drivers in Speri-Indeo junction, Abakaliki. “The right to live is inalienable right of every man and no man no
matter your position or office has the right to take another man’s live. “While we condemn in no small measure the inglorious and unholy act
of the virus, we call on the Ebonyi Government and police authority to
unravel the cause of the death and immediately prosecute those that are
involved,’’ Onyibe recalled that Mgbada was killed on the early hours of Tuesday,
May 14, along Presco-Ezza Road, Abakaliki, when he was chased by one of
the VIO officials when they stopped his vehicle. “He was still having an argument with one of the officials on why
they should stop his vehicle, when suddenly he was violently pushed by
the official without his knowledge and he fell, hitting his head on
concrete road pavement and died instantly. “He died in the presence of his wife and children.” Meanwhile, Gov. Dave Umahi of Ebonyi in a statement on Tuesday, May
14 signed by Mr Emma Uzo, his Chief Press Secretary condemned the
killing of Mgbada. He described the killing as unfortunate and barbaric and urged police to ensure that perpetrators were brought to justice. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the deceased was the
Secretary of the Ebonyi Elders Council and former member of the
Abakaliki Capital Territory Development Board.