By Deborah Coker Benin – Police in Edo on Thursday said they had arrested four suspected members of Boko Haram who escaped into the state after perpetrating heinous crimes in neighbouring Kogi. The Commissioner of Police in the state, Mr Mohammed DanMallam,
disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in
Benin. DanMallam said that the suspects were nabbed on a tip-off in their hide-out in Afuze, Edo North Senatorial District. He said that on interrogation, one of the suspects confessed to
having killed 40 of his victims, while another confessed to have escaped
from Koton  Karfi Prison in 2014, and also participated in armed
robbery in Ekiti in 2013. He, however, said that the suspects would be handed over to the
Police in Kogi for further interrogation as their crimes were
perpetrated in that state.
DanMallam also told NAN that since the inauguration of “Operation Puff
Adder” in the state on May 2, the command had recorded some achievements
in the fight against crime and criminality. He explained that 34 suspects had been arrested in connection with
armed robbery, and four others apprehended in connection with
kidnapping. He added that 32 suspected cultists had been arrested since the
operation began, and that 10 different arms and 215 ammunitions were
recovered. The police chief disclosed that nine victims were rescued from suspected kidnappers, while 11 vehicles were also recovered. He restated that the fight against crime was continuous and that the
command was committed to reducing the cases in the state to the barest
minimum. DanMallam said that it was untrue that any life was lost in the clash by cult groups in Benin on Monday. According to him, nobody died during the cult clash around Murtala
Mohammed Way, but there was an attempt by some cultists to cause
trouble, but we got credible information and the police team repelled
them. “We arrested two of them who are still with us and under investigation because they are from rival groups.”