An Igando Customary Court in Lagos, on Thursday, dissolved a 41-
year-old marriage between Mrs Mabel Alli and her husband, Pastor
Richard, over incest. The Court President, Mr Adeniyi Koledoye, said that it appeared that
the estranged couple were tired of the marriage and all efforts to
reconcile them failed. “Since both parties agreed to the dissolution of the marriage, this court has no choice but to dissolve it. “The court hereby pronounce the marriage between Mabel Alli and
Pastor Richard, dissolved. Both of you henceforth cease to be husband
and wife. “Each of you should go your separate ways. The court wishes both of you well in your future endeavours,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the petitioner, Mabel,
approached the court to end her marriage to Richard, for impregnating
her sister and their daughter. “My husband sexually molested all three of our daughters. After
impregnating my sister, he took one of our daughters to the hospital to
have an abortion. “Our 19-year-old girl also reported to me that he always sneaks into
her room to have intercourse with her and I have caught him in the act. “My friends and domestic staff are not spared. I have caught him with
them too, he is just a womaniser.” the estranged wife alleged. The 63-year-old businesswoman said that her husband was fetish and
also wanted to use her for money ritual in order to finance his
political ambition. Mabel alleged that her husband does not take care of the children. The mother of four begged the court to terminate the union that she was no longer interested. However, Richard, who denied all the allegations, welcomed the
divorce suit, saying he too was no longer interested in the marriage. The 66-year-old pastor denied sleeping with his wife’s sister,
friends, housemaids nor daughters, saying that it was his wife that took
their daughter for an abortion. According to him, he never took his wife to any herbalist and had never ever threatened to kill her. The respondent said that he went to Kenya for a prayer conference and not to get power and charms as his wife had claimed. Source;http://Dailypost.ng