 Singapore – Oil prices dipped on Friday, paving the way for a weekly decline as surging U.S. output was expected to start hitting global markets soon. Brent crude oil futures were at 70.49 dollars per barrel at 0646 GMT, down 26 cents, or 0.4 per cent, from their last close. U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude futures were down 11 cents or 0.2 per cent at 61.61 dollars per barrel. Brent is set for a weekly fall of over 2 per cent, while WTI has
declined almost 2.5 per cent so far, its second straight weekly drop. “Oil prices have fallen as the pressure of record U.S. output levels
continues to weigh,” said Mihir Kapadia, chief executive officer of Sun
Global Investments. U.S. crude oil production reached a record 12.3 million barrels per
day (bpd) last week, rising by around 2 million bpd over the past year.
U.S. crude exports broke through 3 million bpd for the first time this
year, according to data from the Energy Information Administration. Traders said prices also fell as Russia started sending clean oil
through a pipeline toward western’s Europe, after several countries last
week halted imports because of contamination. In Poland, the government
released strategic reserves to ensure supply. “In Eastern Europe, countries have secured supplies to offset
shipments halted due to contamination,” said Sukrit Vijayakar, director
of energy consultancy Trifecta. In the United States, analysts say supply will rise further as its export infrastructure is improved. “One of the things that we can see in the near future is the
de-bottlenecking of the Permian basin in the U.S. through new pipelines
and export capacity. This will connect the world’s largest shale basin to the global oil
market,” said Will Hobbs, chief investment officer for Barclays
Investment Solutions. Rising U.S. oil production has helped offset some of the disruptions
from U.S. sanctions against Iran and Venezuela, and from supply cuts led
by the Middle East-dominated Organization of the Petroleum Exporting
Countries (OPEC), which started in January. Despite these disruptions and sharp oil price rises in the first
months of this year, some analysts say the long-term price risk to crude
oil is skewed to the downside. Erik Norland, senior economist at commodity derivative exchange CME
Group, said “the 130 per cent rise in U.S. production due to the shale
oil revolution” during the past decade had created a strong and constant
downside risk to oil prices, which was visible in exchange trading
positions. “Observers of the oil markets might be surprised to discover that
during the past decade, out-of-the-money (OTM) put options were more
expensive than OTM calls 92.5 per cent of the time for crude oil,” he
said. “In other words, oil traders have spent much more time during the
past decade worried about downside risks than prices heading higher,”
Norland added.