By Stanley Nwansoike Enugu – Most Rev. Emmanuel Chukwuma, the Archbishop of Anglican Arch-Diocese of Enugu, has urged the Nigerian Red Cross Society to upscale and sustain its humanitarian services for the good of humanity. Chukwuma made the call on Sunday after receiving Sir Henri Dunant Gold Merit Award from the Enugu State Branch of the society during the commemoration of 2019 World Red Cross Day in Enugu. The archbishop further extolled the commitment of the Red Cross to provision of humanitarian aid to the vulnerable and those in conflict zones in Nigeria even under unfavourable conditions. “I appeal to government to do everything to equip our hospitals. Red Cross cannot do everything. They only do first aid. So, our hospitals should be well equipped to help the people who are sick. “I thank the Red Cross for continuing to maintain peace even in a time when there is so much violence in the society. “So I think it is a time for us to come together to make sure that we lessen violence and then help those who are in need. “I thank God that the Red Cross has come to acknowledge what I do for the poor, needy, students and many people. “I am humbled and I dedicate this award to God and all those whom I have touched. “I want all those who are privileged to still do their best to help the poor and the less privileged,’’ he said. Earlier, the Chairman of Red Cross in Enugu State Branch, Mr Mike Nwokolo, said that World Red Cross Day is celebrated annually to pay tribute to volunteers who participated in society’s activities and their contributions to helping the needy. “World Red Cross Day is celebrated by the people on international level to alleviate people’s suffering, enhancing their dignity, protecting their life from emergencies and lots of natural disasters including epidemic diseases, flood and earthquakes. “It is celebrated by all sections of the Red Cross society to help people by keeping all its fundamental principles, which are Humanity, Impartiality. Neutrality, Independence, Voluntary service, Unity and Universality,’’ Nwokolo said. He said that the award to Chukwuma and others in Enugu was meant to give recognition to their immense contributions to improvement of humanity and uplifting the downtrodden. Other awardees were  Mrs Nkechi Eneh, Executive Secretary of Enugu State Emergency Management Agency; Justice G.C. Nnamani, President, Enugu Customary Court of Appeal, and Chief Fire Officer of Enugu State, Mr Okwudiri Ohaa.