By Emmanuel Acha Enugu – A Non-Governmental Organisation, Global Society for Anti-Corruption (GSAC) on Thursday launched its campaign against all forms of corruption in primary and secondary schools in Enugu State. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the campaign launched at Tender Links Nursery/Primary Schools, Trans Ekulu, Enugu is a conscious effort to enlighten pupils and students on the dangers of corruption. The South East/South South Director of the organisation, Mrs Amaka Nweke, said that it had become necessary to put in place measures aimed at salvaging the future of the country. Nweke said that the campaign which would be carried out in all primary and secondary schools across the country had the backing of Federal Ministry of Education. The director said that in spite of the damaging effects of corruption, there was hope for the country if conscious plans were put in place to direct young Nigerians on the path of integrity. “This is a grassroots campaign aimed at salvaging the future of young Nigerians in order to save them from falling into the same pitfalls which have held us down. “We are going to lead the pupils and students through positive character formation processes that will make them become people of integrity in future,” she said. Nweke however, said that the NGO was lacking the necessary logistic support it needed to effectively execute the project. “Our aim is to replicate the programme in all primary and secondary schools across the country but we do not have people supporting us. “In spite of the obvious challenges we are encountering, we shall continue with the campaign across the country starting with the South East and South South regions,” she said. She said that the sensitisation campaign would be followed by the setting up of a GSAC Anti-corruption Clubs in the various schools. She said that the club would serve as a mentoring platform for the members. “Part of the project is to conduct quiz and debates among members of the club at the end of every school year aimed at inculcating certain good values to the pupils and students,” Nweke said. In a goodwill message, the Proprietress of the school, Mrs Ngozi Odebeatu, commended the NGO for the move. Odebeatu said that the campaign was a laudable idea which would bring about character re-engineering as well as restore the cherished norms and values of Nigerians. The highlights of the programme were talks by representatives of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) and Daniel Ukwu Leadership Foundation. NAN reports that the programme with the theme, ‘Save the Young’ was done in collaboration with Glo Nig. PLC., Anti-corruption Community Development Service of National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) among others. (NAN)