By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – As Nigeria enters its third
decade as a democracy, YIAGA AFRICA, National Endowment for Democracy (NED),
and Ford Foundation is hosting a conference titled “Nigeria’s Democracy
at 20: Reflections and Reform” in Washington DC on October 22 – 23,
2019. The conference provides an opportunity for reflection on Nigeria’s
democracy with special focus on how Nigeria can consolidate and deepen its
democracy. The event is designed to raise the profile of and build on on-going
election review and governance reform conversations in Nigeria and mobilize
international support for democratic reforms in Nigeria. The conference will
also feature a special roundtable on Nigeria’s economy and restructuring at the
School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS), John Hopkins University,
Washington, DC. The Executive Director, YIAGA AFRICA, Samson Itodo
disclosed this on Friday in a statement sent to Sundiata Post. In February 2019, Nigeria held its sixth national
election since the country returned to democratic civilian rule.  The
election reflects both the strengths and deficiencies in Nigeria’s democracy.
Whilst the political space is pluralistic and competitive, democratic
institutions remain weak, and civic space restricted. Citizens have real
expectations for government officials, and failure to meet these expectations
can result in removal from office through the ballot, even as public trust in
state institutions declines. Government structures and systems, including the
electoral management bodies, security forces, and the courts are guided and
constrained by democratic rules. And yet, politics is exclusionary and
divisive. Government officials and agencies often fail to operate transparently
and respond to the needs and demands of the people. Officials and agencies also
fail to abide by the rule of law. This and many more will form the thrust of
conversations and dialogue sessions moderated by Prof. Carl Levan, American
University; Jennifer Cooke, George Washington University; and Christopher
O’Connor, National Endowment for Democracy. The event will feature a cross section of Nigerian
civil society, academics, and government officials discussing 20 years of
inconsistent democratic progress, the 2019 elections, and avenues for reform.
Key speakers include: Professor Okechukwu Ibeanu, National Commissioner in
charge of electoral operations, Independent National Electoral Commission
(INEC); Prof. Eghosa Osaghae, University of Ibadan; Dr Hussaini Abdu, Country
Director, PLAN International; Clement Nwankwo, Executive Director, Policy and
Legal Advocacy Centre (PLAC), Ayo Obe, Ezenwa Nwagwu, Chairman, Partners for
Electoral Reform Idayat Hassan, Director, Centre for Democracy and Development
(CDD); Cynthia Mbamalu, Program Manager, YIAGA AFRICA. Others include Kemi
Okenyodo, Executive Director, Partners West Africa; Yemi Adamolekun, Executive
Director, Enough is Enough; Mufuliat Fijabi, CEO, Nigeria Women Trust Fund
(NWTF), and Paul Phillip James, Watching The Vote Training manager. The conference
will contribute to tangible policy reform priorities for election management,
internal party democracy, security sector governance, and political inclusion,
as well as a roadmap on what civil society, the government,
the public, and the international community can do in accelerating the process
of democratic reform in Nigeria.