Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and political activist, Timi Frank, has described the appointment of former President Goodluck Jonathan by the United Nations (UN) as one of the rewards for leaving behind a legacy of peace in the country. He, however, cautioned President Muhammadu Buhari to think of the
kind of legacies he would leave behind at the expiration of his tenure, adding
that the International Criminal Court (ICC) was no respecter of any president. The UN on Monday announced the appointment of Nigeria’s former
President as its Special Envoy on Crisis Management. UN Secretary-General,
Antonio Guterres, made the announcement in New York. Reacting to the appointment through a statement in Abuja to congratulate
the former president, Frank said: “GEJ’s uncommon trait of leadership in Africa
and beyond is an asset to the whole world. “We will be praying to God to give Goodluck Jonathan wisdom,
knowledge and understanding to manage this honour as the first African to hold
this position. “Jonathan’s love for
humanity is a virtue every living being must imbibe. His humility, through the
grace of God is beyond ordinary. Though, being vilified at home by some
elements of darkness, International community, where things work daily,
recognised him. A big congratulations to a peaceful leader,” Frank stated.” Recalling some of the statements of peace credited to the former
President, Frank said: “Statements like ‘if I lose this election, of course I
will go back to my village. The country is not my father’s estate,’ my ambition
is not worth the blood of any Nigerian,’ and ‘Let nobody rig for me,’ among
others, will forever differentiate Jonathan from the current president. “In the 2019 presidential election, when Buhari was asked whether
he will congratulate the winner if he loses the election, he (Buhari) simply
said he would congratulate himself. That is desperation of the highest order. “While former President Jonathan is being honoured worldwide, by
the time Buhari will leave office anytime from now, the world will be waiting
for him to answer some questions bothering on human rights and the rule of law,
among others,” Frank stated. Commending the United Nation
for the honour done to Nigeria’s former President, Frank said: “The body should
not also fail to reward bad leaders for their contributions to humanity as well