Yakubu Uba Yola – Some supporters of Adamawa United FC on Monday, protested alleged sack of the club’s chairman, Emmanuel Zira, and the entire players,by the State Ministry of Youth and Sports. The protesters,who marched to Government House, Yola, holding placards, called for the intervention of Gov. Ahmadu Fintiri to save the team, which has now qualified to play this season in the Premier League. Speaking to newsmen during the protest, Vice Chairman of the team’s Supporters Club, Musa Adeyinka, said that it was sad that the club qualified for the premier league but nothing was done to reward or encourage the team. “Six players received national call but the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Sports, Hassan Bashir,frustrated them from going. “He sacked the chairman of the club and now the players; is holding Adamawa sports to ransom and should be removed from the ministry,” he said. Also speaking, the Captain of the club, Ibrahim Bulus, also accused the permanent secretary of the ministry of sacking all the players. “We fought hard and got the  premiership ticket, while teams from other states that qualified were rewarded, what we got from Adamawa was sack. “As it stands now, the permanent secretary Ministry of Youth and Sports sent the Technical Adviser to address us (players) that there is no team on ground, that he has sacked everybody. “We have outstanding salaries and bonuses with him that have not been paid,” Bulus said. Reacting, the Permanent Secretary, Bashir, denied owing any player salary, adding that all outstanding salary and bonus had been paid in November. Bashir said that nobody was sacked and that  their contracts had expired. “Their season and contract has ended. Camping and screening of new players for the club is on and we want all of them to come and participate, but they want automatic ticket; they need to know that its not everybody that will be retained. “I want to follow due process and that’s why they are not comfortable with me; they want things to be done the old way and I say no,” Bashir said. He  said that no player was invited to the national team as being claimed, adding that the protesters were just acting the script of some people not comfortable with due process. (NAN)