By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Senate on Tuesday slammed the Managing Directors of Lower Benue River Basin Development Authority, Engr. Mahmoud O. Adra and his counterpart in Osun River Basin Development Authority, Olufemi Odumosu over their inability to account for the 2019 internally generated revenues (IGR) of their respective agencies. Senator Bello Mandiya led committee on Water Resources had during the budget defence became furious when the Managing Director of Lower Benue River Development Authority, Engr. Mahmoud O. Adra told the committee that, based on the circular he received, he made use of the IGR, though he was unable to provide documents to back up his claims. The committee, however, warned him never to appear before It in subsequent budget defences without proper accountability, stressing that the entire nation was looking unto them for a proper and effective passage of the 2020 appropriation bill. Also, the MD of Osun River Basin Development Authority, Olufemi Odumosu, told the committee that they realized a total of N47.2m from IGR and 25% of the total sum has been remitted to the federal government while the remaining 75% was retained by the agency. The committee Vice Chairman, Senator Christopher Ekpeyong, sought to know if the 75% retained by the agency was still with them or has been put to use? The question which the MD failed to answer. On his part, the committee Chairman, though commended the MD of Osun River Basin Development Authority for generating a huge amount via IGR, but was not satisfied with the level of accountability by the agencies. Meanwhile, members of the committee tasked the agencies across board to step up with the completion of the various ongoing projects across the country, stating that is the only way their constituents will benefit from their representation. Senator Mandiya noted that the 9th Assembly was doing everything possible to pass the budget before the end of the year, to enable the MDGs implement the budget fully in next fiscal year. The committee is expected to receive more documents from both agencies, as additional attachments required to back up the budget performance for the year 2019 and the 2020 budget estimates.