By Babatunde Ogunrinde Lagos – A mini version of the hugely successful GOtv Boxing Night, tagged “GOtv Boxing Night Mini”, is set to debut in the boxing scene. The inaugural edition will hold on Nov. 16 at the Mobolaji Johnson Sports Complex, Rowe Park, Yaba, Lagos. Jenkins Alumona, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO Flykite), organisers of the bouts announced the development on Monday at a media sit-in in Lagos. Alumona told newsmen that GOtv Boxing Night Mini is conceived to provide more frequent opportunities for boxers as a means of ensuring that they get requisite number of fights. He said that it would make them eligible for sub-regional, continental and international title bouts. “Our boxers have, in spite of the best efforts of GOtv Boxing Night, inadequate opportunities to fight and build their fight records, which they need to become eligible for international titles. “GOtv Boxing Night Mini, will be staged with more frequency than the main event and will address this challenge of more fights records for boxers ,” he said. Alumona also explained that the 20th edition of GOtv Boxing Night, which was planned to hold on Oct. 12 had been fused into the mega edition of the event slated for December. The development, he said, was imposed by the injury suffered in training by Oto “Joe Boy” Joseph, African Boxing Union (ABU) Lightweight champion. Joseph was scheduled to defend his title against Rilwan “Real One” Oladosu, West African Boxing Union (WABU) champion in the much-anticipated headline bout. He added that hopes that the injury would heal on time proved misplaced. Sports medicine experts have advised that the injury — a shoulder breach — be allowed a longer recuperation period to avoid aggravation. Some of the other boxers scheduled to fight at GOtv Boxing Night 20 will, however, feature at GOtv Boxing Night Mini. These include Rilwan “Baby Face” Babatunde, Kabiru “KB Godson” Towolawi and Cynthia “Baby Girl” Ogunsemilore. Also lined up to be in action is Waheed “Skoro” Usman, former ABU Featherweight champion. (NAN)