By Chinyere Joel-Nwokeoma/Lydia Ngwakwe Lagos – First Bank of Nigeria Limited on Wednesday said that it had over 18 million customers’ accounts. Mr Chuma Ezirim, the bank’s Group Executive, e-Business & Retail Product, said this at the bank’s Fintech Summit 3.0 held in Lagos. Speaking on ‘Digital Financial Services – The Nigeria Market Size’, Ezirim told the gathering that the bank processed over 500,000 transactions worth N23 billion daily. He said that 8.5 million customers were on the bank’s USSD channels, noting that FirstBank would continue to maintain its leadership in product and service delivery. Ezirim said that FirstBank had issued over 10 million cards, representing about 25 per cent of card transactions processed in the country. He noted that the country’s mobile application size stood at 13 million, agent banking 41 million and USSD 35 million. According to him, the bank will continue to leverage technology in service delivery to boost financial inclusion, to achieve 95 per cent target by 2020. Ezirim said that FirstBank would continue to make banking easier for its customers, and ensure they had access to financial services at the comfort of their homes. He said that the bank would continue to expand its products and services to ensure presence in every nook and cranny of the country. The bank, according to him, has dominant presence in the 754 local governments in the 36 states, with a target to be in all the villages across the country. On growth areas and opportunities in the industry, he said that the bank would leverage on real time processing of transactions to boost growth and development. According to him, FirstBank will continue to work with the financial technology sector to scale services through non-branch networks. Head, FirstBank Digital Innovation, Lola Ekugo, said that the bank, through its Digital Lab, had partnered Fintech to develop quality financial products. Ekugo said that the bank was always ready to partner with startups that had viable value proposition for the bank and its customers. (NAN)