Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomoso, has been in the clutches of incessant industrial actions over unfulfilled promises arising as a result of the inability of the two owner States to find a common ground on issues affecting the smooth running of the University. In a statement signed by the Alumni association president, Solomon Onilede expressed their worry about the situation. See statement below: As a concerned stakeholder, we are seriously embittered over the current situation of the 28-years old institution, hence it has become imperative for us as a body not to fold our arms and watch the University go into oblivion. We sincerely share in the pains of staffers of the institution over irregular receipt of their monthly wages. Aside this, the way the quality of the university is gradually dragged in the mud through incessant industrial action is highly worrisome as the institution keeps losing her place in comity of universities. We wish to appeal to all the Unions on the campus to show more understanding in registering their grievances as the incessant industrial action can only ground the University to a total halt, we will continue to stand by the Unions in pressing home their demands while we also protect and preserve the sustainability of our alma mata, dialogue as a form of negotiation will always be advocated because of the future of over 26,000 students at stake. The leadership of the Alumni association before now have met with the relevant stakeholders with a view to ensure smooth running of the University,we recently met with the executive Governors of the two owner states Engr. Seyi Makinde of Oyo state and Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola of Osun state to discuss issues bothering on mutual and peaceful joint ownership of the institution by the two states. In the light of the foregoing crisis that recently ensued, we are pleased to inform the staffers, students and the general public that efforts have been made to have the two governors and other stakeholders in a roundtable dialogue which shall take place on Wednesday, this week. But it is so disheartening that despite all these efforts some people are planning to threaten the borrowed peace on campus by contemplating protest, attack and harassment of their fellow staffers tomorrow. We want to inform all that steps and plans are in top gear to find a lasting solution to this lingering crisis. As a matter of fact, the interest of over 26,000 students will be affected and we cannot allow any disruption in academic activities going forward.
We therefore appeal once again to the staffers and students to give us a little time in meeting with these governors, which we have been assured would be this week. Let us all be calm as we continue to seek your unflinching support.