By Stephen Adeleye Lokoja – The Association of Professional Women Engineers of Nigeria (APWEN) on Saturday donated 100 exercise books to female students of the Government Girls Secondary School (GGSS), Sirki-Noma, Lokoja, Kogi. Presenting the books to the students at the school’s premises, the President of the association, Mrs Felicia Agubata, said the gesture was part of the union’s activities to mark the ”International Day of Girl-Child”, being celebrated annually on Oct. 11. Agubata, who was represented by Mrs Margaret Ojo, the APWEN state Chairperson, said one of APWEN’s objectives correlated with what the United Nation was doing every Oct. 11, to celebrate the ‘girl-child day’. ”APWEN is celebrating the girl-child day in girls’ school in Kogi to inspire female students to study sciences to pursue a career in Engineering. ”APWEN is championing the course of the girl-child; we are encouraging them to take sciences seriously so that in the long run they can study engineering as a profession. ”We have donated 100 exercise books to the girls and also gave them a career-talk concerning their education, to encourage them to take sciences seriously and eventually take up Engineering as a profession,” she said. She said that the objective of the association was to encourage engineering among female Nigerians and create a platform on which women Engineers could collaborate with other women in other professions in Nigeria and abroad. ”To stimulate women to achieve professions in Nigeria and elsewhere; and expand the image of the engineering profession as a position for improving the quality of life. ”To create enough awareness that engineering is a career for girls too and to improve on the numerical strength of female engineers in Nigeria,” the president said. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Women Engineers also paid an advocacy visit to the Kogi Commissioners for Transport, Mr Awal Mohammed, and his counterparts in Works, Land and Housing, Mr Abdulmumin Sadiq, an Engineer. Both Commissioners commended APWEN for their efforts at reaching out to girl-child, while assuring them of their unflinching support within their own capacities. (NAN)