Abuja – Mr Osakpamwan Eriyo, the National President, Road Transport Employers’ Association of Nigeria (RTEAN), has advised Nigerians, particularly residents of Lagos, against dealing with the former Lagos RTEAN executives, led by Alhaji Musa Mohammed. Eriyo, in a statement made available to newsmen on Sunday in Abuja, said that the executives remained dissolved. The statement quoted Eriyo as giving the advice when he received the Abia state chapter executives at the RTEAN headquarters on Saturday, in Abuja. He maintained that his interest was to ensure the welfare of RTEAN members and the progress of the association. The RTEAN boss said he had always followed the legal and constitutional ways in resolving issues in the association. “My coming as President is to ensure the unity and progress of members of the association. “Nobody is bigger than this union. Therefore, we must work together in order to move the association to where it rightly belongs. “We must discard hatred; work as a family; love one another and unify all units, branches and chapters. By doing all these, we will succeed in moving this association to the next level,” Eriyo said. The RTEAN president advised his members across the country not to indulge in any act inimical to the association and the Nigerian constitution. “It is always advisable to go the way of law; hence the National Industrial Court (NIC), in its wisdom, has restrained the former Lagos state chapter chairman from having dealings under the name of RTEAN. “The Lagos state caretaker committee is, therefore, urged to go about its normal business, as the law will eventually take its course,” he added. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the national body of RTEAN had, on Sept. 13, dissolved the Lagos State Executive Council, following expiration of its tenure. The executive council members, however, disagreed with the action of the national body, describing the dissolution as illegal, null and void, insisting that their tenure would lapse on Oct. 31. They said that the resolution for the continuation of the council’s tenure was passed at the chapel, zonal and state executive levels, adding that it had since been forwarded to the national body. The NIC, presided over by Justice Sanusi Kado in Abuja, had restrained Mohammed and six others from parading themselves as NEC members of RTEAN. The judge ordered the defendants to desist from further harassing, intimidating and subjecting members of the claimant to inhuman treatment, pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice. (NAN)