Kanye West has accused the Democratic Party of brainwashing blacks and promoting policies that are harmful to the race. The 42-year-old rapper who disclosed this in an nterview with radio host Big Boy while promoting his new Christian-themed album ‘Jesus Is King’, added that he doesn’t think it’s smart for black people to give bloc votes to Democrats. ‘You are quite easily controlled if they know everybody gonna be blue [Democrat]. If you go to a white [person] bar, you gonna hear people talking Independent, you gonna hear people talking Democrat, you gonna hear people talking Republican’ he said. Kanye also affirmed that African-Americans have no culture while responding to a question of abandoning his culture to support President Donald Trump. According to him, the adopted mishmash of consumerism has kept black people trapped as opposed to entrepreneurship and self-ownership which is the traditional Republican ideology. On if he was tacitly endorsing racism with his support for Trump, Kanye flipped the question around, saying:‘The most racist thing a person can tell me is that I’m supposed to choose something based on my race’. West also clarified in the interview that he would not tell any black American how to vote, bizarrely stating: ”I’m not telling nobody to not vote Democrat, I love Obama, I love lemonade, I love Wingstop, I love polos, I love Jordans’. The rapper who lashed out at the Democrats for encouraging abortion, backed his claim by quoting the scriptures “Thou shall not kill.” Kanye further stated that he is not afraid of being ‘cancelled’ over his controversial opinions. The born-again Christian remarked: ‘I’m only afraid of my daddy, God. I done been 15 years. I’m telling you that God is showing you that you can have your own thoughts, bro. I been canceled before there was cancel culture.’Kanye West has accused the Democratic Party of brainwashing blacks and promoting policies that are harmful to the race. The 42-year-old rapper who disclosed this in an nterview with radio host Big Boy while promoting his new Christian-themed album ‘Jesus Is King’, added that he doesn’t think it’s smart for black people to give bloc votes to Democrats. ‘You are quite easily controlled if they know everybody gonna be blue [Democrat]. If you go to a white [person] bar, you gonna hear people talking Independent, you gonna hear people talking Democrat, you gonna hear people talking Republican’ he said. Kanye also affirmed that African-Americans have no culture while responding to a question of abandoning his culture to support President Donald Trump. According to him, the adopted mishmash of consumerism has kept black people trapped as opposed to entrepreneurship and self-ownership which is the traditional Republican ideology. On if he was tacitly endorsing racism with his support for Trump, Kanye flipped the question around, saying:‘The most racist thing a person can tell me is that I’m supposed to choose something based on my race’. West also clarified in the interview that he would not tell any black American how to vote, bizarrely stating: ”I’m not telling nobody to not vote Democrat, I love Obama, I love lemonade, I love Wingstop, I love polos, I love Jordans’. The rapper who lashed out at the Democrats for encouraging abortion, backed his claim by quoting the scriptures “Thou shall not kill.” Kanye further stated that he is not afraid of being ‘cancelled’ over his controversial opinions. The born-again Christian remarked: ‘I’m only afraid of my daddy, God. I done been 15 years. I’m telling you that God is showing you that you can have your own thoughts, bro. I been canceled before there was cancel culture.’