•Seyi Makinde, Governor of Oyo State By Akeem Abas Ogbomoso (Oyo State) – A group of old students of Ogbomoso Baptist High School (1979 set) on Wednesday donated desks and chairs worth N1.5 million to their alma mater The News Agency of Nigria (NAN) reports that the school furniture, which could accommodate over 100 students, was donated to mark the 40th anniversary of the old students’ graduation from the college. Presenting the items, the leader of the 1979 Set, Prof. Henry Odeyinka,  said the gesture was to compliment the efforts of government in providing qualitative education for younger generations in the state. “We are using this medium to send signals to other old students to come and do something for their schools. “The principal had listed a number of things lacking in the school and we are going to look into it and do more. This is just the beginning, we will not relent on our efforts,” he said. Speaking at the ocassion, Oyo State Commissioner for Education, Prof. Daud Sangodoyin, lauded the old students for their immense contribution to the development of their alma mata. Sangodoyin, who was represented by Mr Samuel Oloko, Ogbomoso Zonal Inspector of Education, said that Oyo State Government had relieved the burden of parents by its declaration of free education and provision of textbooks and notebooks in schools. The commissioner said it was good that the ex-students were giving back to the school which shaped their lives, adding that without the school, most of them wouldn’t have been where they were today. According to him, the present administration of Gov. Oluseyi Makinde is committed to restoring and repositioning the state’s education sector. Earlier, Deacon Adedeji Adesoye, the School Principal, thanked the old students for their contribution, saying that the furniture donated would accommodate no fewer than 100 students. NAN reports that the old students also presented cash gift to their former principal, Pa Joseph Ojo, at the well-attended event which featured debate competition, traditional dance, among others. (NAN) 