By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The 2019 International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA) Africa Regional Congress which started on the 11th of October came to a colorful end on 15th October, 2019 with a dinner and award night held at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja. Earlier before the dinner and award
night, FIDA had issued a communiqué  consisting
of 17 points observations and 37 points resolutions/recommendations  at the end of the plenary sections which
formed part of the activities during the five- day congress. Chairman of the FIDA Dinner and Award
Night, Alex Izinyon ,PH.D, SAN, OFR in his remarks, described the 2019 Regional
Congress as exciting and commended FIDA 
for organizing such a wonderful activity-packed congress. According to him, “It has been an exciting program and very commendable. FIDA you have done well and I still believe that you will do more. “It is not yet Uhuru, don’t forget
that the battle has been on for long and where we are now is a progressive
status that you have gone far. Izinyon who counseled FIDA not to
give up, assured that tomorrow will be better despite that the battle is not an
easy one but has been on for long. In his words, “I know that in the next ten years, it will be better than where we are today. The reason why I said you should not give up is that for those of us who are students of history or who read religious books, even in those days, about 2000 years ago, only the woman was caught in the act. The man was never charged and never called to account. And if you recall, the leader to tell you that is in support of the women said something and after that, all of them left one after the other. So that shows you that the battle has been on for years. Today, we feel the progress and the
tenacity is only political. So I encourage you not to give up because it a
struggle in the men dominated society, he said. He therefore urged FIDA to seek the men’s support because FIDA cannot do it alone, adding that often times there are a lot of challenges for those who are oppressed. To this extent, we need that synergy, we need that cooperation, Izinyon added. Earlier in her welcome address, FIDA Regional
Vice President (North and West Africa), Victoria Awomolo informed that there
have been series of activities including the empowerment of 54 indigent women
which has lifted them out of poverty level for life. This is because any
empowered woman is an asset for life. She thanked those who were present at
the closing of the FIDA Regional congress that took place in Abuja. The dignitaries who graced the closing
ceremony include but not limited to; Hajia Titi Abubakar,  Hajia Aisha Babangida and former governor of
Anambra state, Dame Virgy Etiaba. Others are Delegates from; Uganda, Ghana,
Bahamas and others FIDA executive members from 36 states of Nigeria. The details of the communiqués reads: COMMUNIQUE
OF THE FIDA AFRICA REGIONAL CONGRESS, WITH THEME: THE GROWTH OF WOMEN AND
CHILDREN IN AFRICA: BEYOND RHETORIC HELD FROM 11TH TO 15TH OCTOBER, 2019 AT THE
YARADUA CENTER AND TRANSCORP HILTON ABUJA. INTRODUCTION: This is a congress organized by
the FIDA Africa Regional for women and stakeholders to dialogue on the future
of the growth of women and children in Africa. It has been observed that there is the dire need for the
transformation in that field. This congress is apt and timely as the
growth of women and children in Africa is very eminent for development. Moreso, it
is time to have proper conversation about where women are coming from, where
they stand now and the best way to move forward. This theme was chosen to
remedy the challenges of women and children as they constitute more than half
of the population, yet the often underutilized resource. At the end of the
incisive interactions the following observations and recommendations were made: OBSERVATIONS: The congress
noted the following observations: 1) Though
the concepts of growth and governance are in many ways intertwined and key to
prosperity, the African continent continues to lose out on the opportunity of
the force of women in its development. 2) Growth in gender equality includes women’s ability to participate equally on existing decision making platforms. 3) According
to recent reports from the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the
Empowerment of Women, UN Women, the African continent has demonstrated
commitment to promoting gender equality and the empowerment of women. 4) Almost
all countries have ratified the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Discrimination against Women; more than half have ratified the African Union’s
Protocol on the Rights of Women in Africa. 5) Gaps in legal and social frame works
compounded by weak enforcement are the key drivers in the growing impunity for
Violence Against Women and Girls (VAWG) and Sexual Gender Based Violence (SGBV). 6) Redress for survivors and accountability by perpetrators are in abysmal figures for violations in private and public spaces. 7) Sustained
advocacy and engagements by the Women’s movement led by organizations like
FIDA,WRAPA, WARDC, CIRDDOC, WACOL under various auspices, have resulted in
limited but positive impacts. 8) Accountability for Violence Against
Women and Women’s dwindling results in elections, defy logic and seem
unaffected by legislations at federal and state levels where available.
This is despite the fact that the country is a signatory to many international
and regional instruments towards the advancement of the rights of women from a
human rights perspective. 9)
Leadership has been recognized as one of the most important variables that
affect the performance of any organization, institution or nation. Scholars and
commentators have unanimously agreed that leadership is one of the challenges
facing Africa. 10)
Institution building and development require visionary, dynamic and capable
leadership. 11) Youth
development is important because young persons are more amenable to change. 12) Women are not a uniform category, they
are a diverse multifaceted social category, yet they are united by their
experience of socialization. 13) Women are defined by variables of access
and opportunity such as education, income, paid employment and credit. 14) Women
are further stratified into subcategories of elite, working class, and
peasants, therefore a one size approach will not fit all. 15) What is required in engaging across all categories however, is the need to have an awareness of the lived reality, and the need to show mutual respect. 16) Trafficking in persons is a form of
modern day slavery and is a grave violation of human rights. It is a
worldwide form of exploitation in which men, women, and children are bought,
sold, and held against their will in slave-like conditions. 17) That trafficking in persons has
taken a new dimension, solely for organ harvesting with the complicity of some
medical Doctors. RESOLUTIONS/RECOMMENDATIONS: The
conference resolved/recommended as follows: 1) By way of
adopting the UN Security Council Resolution (UNSCR), a prompt was made for
women’s participation in peace processes and peace building as well as for the
protection of women and girls from violations during and after violent
conflict. 2) Despite
these resolutions and numerous statements and commitments at global, regional
and national levels, women are still largely absent from peace processes and
peace building initiatives, and today’s conflicts are characterized by
widespread sexual violence against women and girls. 3) There is
the need to promote the commitments of women as it translates into demonstrated
political will and delivery. 4) There is need for sustained popularization of the ideology that recognizes that gender equality is a fundamental human right and an integral part of regional integration, economic growth and social development. 5) There is
the need to enhance and implement high level, cross sector/stakeholder dialogue
and deep advocacy for legislative or administrative reform to repeal
discriminatory provisions or address discriminatory practices at all levels. 6) There is
the need for the promotion and dissemination of a ‘how to tools’ that guide the
demand and supply side engagements at all stages of reforms; tools and learning
mechanisms that help to transit from demand to action. 7) There is
need for the revitalization of momentum to support the proposed class action
for the interpretation of legal provisions that in letter or material allow for
the exclusion or perpetration of wrong against one class of citizens or
another, particularly those most vulnerable to such. 8) There is
need to enhance collaboration as a push button for pressure, synergy and
scaling up of pressure for reforms. 9) There is
the need for the provision of more education on entrepreneurship and mentorship
opportunities to provide role models and guidance to women; as well as a successor
generation to sustain demand and implementation of all reforms that remove
barriers to women’s inclusion and participation. 10) More
energy should be injected to popularize the link between gender equality,
growth, development and the economy. 11) It is
important that every organization or nation should have a deliberate strategy
of building a pipeline of leadership succession that will tackle issues of
institution building and development among other issues. 12) There is the need to have help desks
in universities/institutions manned by women and ensure easy access for
children/students to make reports and complains. 13) There is
the need to fight for the domestication of laws by the State House of Assembly,
to ensure that they are put in place and implemented. 14) There is the need for women to be their own voices and identify where their problems lie. 15) The need
is also there for parents to pay more attention to their children as they end
up spending time and money treating the aftermath of drugs. 16) FIDA
needs to promote for a workable mental health policy as this is not available
in Nigeria and other countries. 17) The government at all levels;
business organizations and civil society should take the challenge of building
transformative leadership seriously and put in place a strategy for the
development of leaders. 18) Governments, private sector and civil society should
establish or support the establishment of leadership schools for the training
of transformative leaders. 19) Leadership
mentoring should be institutionalized in all sectors – government, politics,
business, academics and civil society. 20) There
should be deliberate effort to promote intergenerational dialogue at all
levels. 21) More
emphasis should be placed on youth development because this will involve among
other things the formulation and implementation of effective youth policies
that will deal with the challenges facing youth, that includes but not limited
to lack of access to high quality and relevant education, unemployment, chronic
poverty, political disengagement and poor environmental health. 22) It is
necessary to build the capacity of people for transformative leadership for
gender sensitive and child-friendly policies to drive development. This can be
done through deliberate strategy at all levels with special focus on women and
youth. 23) To effectively
mobilize women, we must ‘historicize’ our journey by beginning with an
understanding of who we are, as women. 24) FIDA must not rest on its oars and
must continue to march forward, advocating, giving a hand where it is needed,
making sure that the doors that open remain open. 25) There is the need to immediately harmonize the Child
Rights Act (CRA) and Sexual Offences Bill because it is long due for review. 26) Sexual based violence and discrimination has made the
world unsafe and urged all hands to be on deck to aggressively fight these
issues. 27) FIDA leaders and members who intend to make an impact should focus majorly on gray areas/topics and work towards developing and achieving same. 28) The
culture of silence must be broken and this can be achieved if governments of
African Countries, especially Nigeria will invest on data of sexual based
violence and hold the different arms of government accountable. 29) FIDA
needs to continue legal representation at local, national, regional and
international levels and engage in Strategic Litigation for women’s human
rights e.g. Dorothy Njemanze v Nigeria (2017) ECOWAS 30) FIDA
needs to solve the challenge of data by engaging more in research,
documentation and knowledge-sharing. 31) The practice of jungle justice wherein
women are subjected to degrading forms of punishment is now prominent.
Perpetrators must be apprehended to put an end to same and such acts must be
discouraged. 32) The practice of getting house helps wherein an agent
is paid instead of the domestic help fuels trafficking and should be
discouraged. 33) Human
trafficking is not just a fight for the Federal Government, hence the need for
State governments to deploy strategies towards tackling trafficking. 34) FIDA
should work towards ensuring synergy in prosecution between the Police and
NAPTIP. 35) Topics on trafficking in persons
should be incorporated into curriculum of Schools at Basic and Senior Secondary
School Level. In the same vain, skills acquisition programs should be
implemented in schools to empower the young ones. It is crucial to engage the
Private Sector, corporate organizations, embassies & foreign missions as
well as the media in carrying out advocacy against trafficking in persons. 36) Illegal
migrant camps should urgently be abolished as they have become breeding grounds
for trafficking. Illegal migrants should be deported to their home countries
instead of keeping them under deplorable conditions in the camp. 37)
Empowerment of rural women across the country is crucial, as poverty triggers
parents to give out their wards to traffickers. States who have not set up
human trafficking task forces should immediately do so to win the anti-trafficking
war.