By Francis Onyeukwu Chapter Two, Section 14 (1)(b) of 1999 Nigeria Constitution states that security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of government. This very important section of the country’s grand norm found under the fundamental objectives and directive principles of state policy though non-justiceable, implies that its application is voluntary for Chief Executives at the local, state and federal tiers of government and therefore, the citizens do not have strong legal grounds to contest failure to abide by it on any leader. An indepth reflection on the above section evidently shows that security is central in tackling the challenges of unemployment, wealth creation, development of infrastructure and other basic amenities as well as other aspects of development in human society. Apparently for this obvious conviction, on assumption of duties as the 6th Executive Governor of Anambra five years ago, Chief Willie Obiano created in Aug.27, 1991, by former Nigeria Head of State, Gen. Ibrahim Babangida, decided to prioritise security. Chief Chikodi Anarah, Special Adviser to Gov. Obiano on Security, Safety and Emergency, who gave a historic account of security in the early days of the administration, described the situation as “terrible”, saying that “most big traders at Onitsha, Nnewi and Awka were opening shops at 11 a.m. and closing before 4 p.m. to avoid being kidnapped or robbed by bandits’’. He said the popular Upper Iweka Flyover at Onitsha was then a danger zone as all manner of criminal elements operated there without challenge. “The terrific insecurity situation forced some natives to hold traditional/church weddings of their children as well as other social events outside Anambra,’’ Anarah said. Obiano, who spoke during the launch of second phase of Smart City Project Codenamed, “Operation Nkpochapu’’ (Operation Wipe-out Crime) in Anambra at Dr Alex Ekwueme Square Awka on Friday, Oct 11, 2019, said he decided to prioritise security because peace and security were the key foundations upon which every development thrives. `Because of the poor security situation then, we started by holding security summit and that enabled us to chart a direction in maintaining the enviable record as Nigeria’s safest state. “We are investing in security because crime detection, arrest and punishment will be easy using modern security devices, and what we have are most sophisticated and highly effective surveillance equipment in the world today,” he said. The governor, who said his administration has donated more than 500 vehicles to security agencies, warned criminals to leave the state as the second phase of the “Operation Nkpochapu” would be deadlier than the first phase. “We have declared a total war on criminals such as kidnappers, human traffickers, bandits, cultists and car snatchers in the state,’’ he said. Obiano urged the Nigerian Police as the lead security agency to collaborate with other security agencies to effectively utilise the gadgets toward a more secured Anambra. He also urged residents to report crime and suspicious movements within their environment to security operatives by dialing 112, a toll free line or GSM number 07039194332. Giving details of the items handed over to security, Obiano said the items included operational room at the command headquarters of Nigeria Police, Amawbia near Awka, Smart Closed-Circuit Cameras (CCTVs) now being installed in Awka, Nnewi and Onitsha. Others are 111 Super Smart Innoson Vehicle Manufactured (IVM) Patrol vehicles equipped with communication devices; three Dura Patcher Trucks, 71 Smart Motorbikes, and nine CCTV Aerial Surveillance Toyota Hilux trucks equipped with modern electronic devices. He said that the patrol vehicles and motorbikes would be distributed to the Nigerian Police, Nigerian Army, Nigerian Navy, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC). Others are the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Nigerian Correctional Service (NCS), the Nigeria Customs Service and the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). The Inspector-General of Police (I-G), Mr Mohammed Adamu, who received the equipment on behalf of other organisations, said he was surprised at the level of equipment donated to security agents by the governor. “I taught we are coming here to receive some few vehicles, but what I have seen here today is beyond imagination, what I have seen is a total package for security and when fully deployed would make it difficult for crime to be committed anywhere in Anambra,’’ he said. Adamu, who also described the event as very significant, said Anambra was of paramount importance, noting: “Anambra is the eight most populated state in this country and the commercial hub in the South-Eastern Nigeria which acts as a gateway connecting the northern Nigeria to the southern part.” He said any nation that was desirous of all-round development must see the security of her citizens as a necessity and therefore, enhance the capacity of security agencies towards attending their mandates. “By this event sir, you have not only given a take to the sacred provision of the constitution of Nigeria which provides that the security and well being of the people shall be the primary purpose of government, you have manifested your determination to prioritise security in this state,’’ he said. The I-G commended Obiano for the political will in prioritising security in the state and urged other state governors to emulate him and as well urged indigenes to massively return back during the Christmas and New Year as their safety was guaranteed. On his part, Mr David Bille, the Anambra Commandant, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Anambra Command, said he was highly elated and surprised about what Gov. Obiano did. “This was my first time of coming across a state governor who is passionate for security matters, what Gov. Obiano is doing in security is second to none when compared to things happening in other states. “Today in Anambra, all the security agencies work as one family in their effort to provide security and safety and the synergy in addition to sustained logistics support has made the state a very peaceful state. “I can say that this second launch of Operation Nkpochapu in Anambra and the equipment donated has beefed up the existing ones on ground,’’ he said. Bille, who said that NSCDC received seven vehicles and 50 power bikes fully fitted with communication and surveillance gadgets, added that said his command was grateful to Obiano. Bille advised other governors to emulate Obiano, adding that “for somebody to build enduring structure, he orshe must first go for architectural design. “Gov. Obiano has become the architect of modern security in Nigeria, and I will advise other governors to consult with him and get the idea behind the success being recorded in the security sector here,’’ he said. A socio-political commentator in Awka, Mr Ifeanyi Mogbo, said he was particularly impressed with the two lessons the second launch of Operation Nkpochapu threw up to Nigerians. “One very important lesson is that Nigeria has witnessed a governor with the political will, who told other governors and even the Federal Government that acquiring modern electronic surveillance gadgets is the in thing in combating insecurity as it is done in advanced nations. “Another lesson is the acquisition of Innoson Super Smart vehicles produced in Nnewi, Nigeria and that shows that we can produce strong durable and fast running vehicles,’’ he said. Mogbo, a chieftain of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from Oraifite in Ekwusigo Local Government Area of the state, said though he did not share the same political belief with Obiano and his party, but that he was speaking his mind as a principled person. “By showcasing the Super Smart Vehicles made by Innoson, what Obiano simply told Nigerians who waste billions of Naira importing exotic vehicles to turn home, and the message on deployment of modern electronic gadgets in crime fighting equally advises other governors  to upgrade,’’ he said. He noted that if Nigeria imbibed these lessons, a lot would change within a short time. Retired Air Vice Marshal, Ben Chiobi, formerly a Nigerian Air Force pilot and head, Anambra Integrated Security Surveillance, observed that the main objective of the novel security initiative was to enhance the safety of security operatives in fighting crimes. “The surveillance cameras work efficiently at night because they have infra red light. Each covers a space as big as four Olympic-size football fields. “There is also an advanced drone to be operated in conjunction with the Nigerian Air Force. “The government also acquired three `Dura Patcher’ trucks for not only security, but to aid in fixing potholes on the roads across the state to ease the operations of security personnel,’’ he said. He said the magic wonder trucks were deployed on the roads to repair bad spots and enhance movement during operations, adding that the trucks would be used to fix bad spots which would enable Anambra people to drive around smoothly during the forthcoming Christmas and New Year festivities. Chiobi said that at present, more than 20 policemen and 25 civilians have been specially trained for the handling of the new security equipment to ensure effect functioning. Scores of captains of industries and notably entrepreneurs from Anambra who witnessed the event include: Innocent Chukwuma of Innoson Motors; Senator Onyeabo Obi; Chief Allen Onyema, the Chairman of Air Peace Airline and Bishop Paulinus Okafor of the Catholic Diocese of Awka. Others are Ernest Azudialu-Obiejesi, Chairman of Nestoil; Stella Okoli, Chairperson of Emzor Pharmaceuticals and Chief Cosmas Ibeto of Ibeto Group and numerous others dignitaries. With remarks made by speakers, and the lesson highlighted by experts, it is evident that long search for the solution in tackling the hydra-headed monster called insecurity has been found and all that is now required is for other state governors to demonstrate the same political will as Obiano in their quest to combat crimes across the country. (NANFeatures)