…Calls On Sirika To Mobilise
Contractors To Begin Work Or It Will Be Viewed As Act Of Sabotage By
Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja
(Sundiata Post) – Group under the auspices of Igbo Ekunie Initiative, (IEI) has
bemoaned the closure of Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu by the Federal
Government and the refusal by the ministry of aviation and federal airport
authority (FAAN) to commence repairs in such critical infrastructure afer two months. The group
warned that the airport must not be subjected to the crude, retrogressive and
un-patriotic anti-people politics of marginalization that has kept the nation
in a perpetual state of under-development, conflicts and social crisis, called
on the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika to as a matter of utmost urgency,
mobilise contractors to commence repairs of the airport to meet the December
deadline initially given. Igbo Ekenie Initiative which
disclosed this in a statement signed by Tochukwu Ezeoke and Lawrence Nwobu, President
and Secretary respectively, said anything to the contrary would confirm the
suspicion, that the airport closure is a direct and deliberate act of
sabotage/marginalisation with grave consequences for the unity and economic
development of the nation. The statement reads in full: We the Igbo Ekunie Initiative,
IEI, comprising of professionals in Nigeria and the Diaspora; have noted the
closure of Akanu Ibiam International Airport Enugu since 24th August
for repairs which are yet to commence for almost 2 months since its closure.
Having reviewed the abrupt closure of the Airport with only a week’s notice and
the continuing delay or outright refusal of the ministry of aviation and
federal airport authority FAAN to commence repairs in such critical
infrastructure; we hereby condemn in the strongest possible terms the continued
delay and refusal of the Federal Government to physically start work on the
construction of the runway at Akanu Ibiam International Airport Enugu, and we
state as follows: That, the same runway at the
airport had been previously awarded to PW Limited which after a prolonged
closure of the airport was only able to render a lacklustre, dismal and
substandard delivery to the effect that the runway was not fit for purpose and
posed a danger to all the airport users. That we are dismayed and bewildered
that the company that failed to comply with the previous award of contract was
again chosen to construct the runway and this raises a lot of questions for the
Minister of Aviation, FAAN and all concerned. That Akanu Ibiam International
Airport is a critical national economic infrastructure that contributes to the
overall development of the region and the nation at large and must not be
subjected to the crude, retrogressive and un-patriotic anti-people politics of
marginalisation that has kept the nation in a perpetual state of
under-development, conflicts and social crisis. That, all over the world, whether
in the United Arab Emirates, Europe or Asia, Airport infrastructure is a
sensitive and very critical infrastructure that has aided the development of
nations across the globe. Airports are so strategic that they are never totally
closed when repairs or upgrades are being carried out in nations that are
serious about economic development. That, while the ministry of
Aviation deemed it necessary to shut down the Akanu Ibiam international airport
for repairs, even though this could have been avoided by constructing a second
runway at night, we believe that all necessary arrangements that would
facilitate the quick reopening of the Airport should have been done in advance
of the closure. That the ongoing delay in
commencing repairs at Enugu Airport constitutes a grave act of economic
sabotage, an affront on the people of the Southeast and thousands of travellers
affected by the abrupt closure of the Airport. We can vividly recall the maximum
urgency that was accorded to Nnamdi Azikiwe airport Abuja when it was
overhauled and reconstructed in such a swift way that all the work was
successfully finished within 6 weeks and whilst the work was subsisting,
ongoing traffic was promptly diverted to Kaduna airport. We note, that the federal airport
authority collects humongous taxes from all federal airports including Enugu
Airport. We also note that when Nnamdi Azikiwe international airport Abuja
faced a similar closure, enough notice was given; repairs were carried out
within 6 weeks and the airport was promptly re-opened. We see no reason why the
Akanu Ibiam international airport should not be similarly treated. The Airport
is now closed for 45 days and counting without any sign of work on the ground. We submit that such insensitive
closure of Enugu airport, other than being an act of grave economic sabotage
also fuels separatist agitations by groups who rightly feel short-changed and
marginalised by such reckless and unpatriotic acts of government. Indeed, it
also validates the argument for restructuring; the logic being that regional
airports should be in control of regional or state governments and not a
federal government that is detached and or has no interest in the development
of sections of the nation. We hereby call on the
minister of Aviation; Alhaji Hadi Sirika to cease these acts of economic
sabotage and as a matter of utmost urgency mobilise contractors to commence
repairs of the Enugu international airport to meet the December deadline
initially given. This is to assuage the displacement, economic haemorrhage and
suffering of those who have been affected by the closure of the airport. Lastly, we warn that anything to
the contrary would confirm the suspicion, that the airport closure is a direct
and deliberate act of sabotage/marginalisation with grave consequences for the
unity and economic development of the nation. We also admonish all the
Governors, National Assembly members, Sate Assembly members and indeed all the
other politicians from the South East to be alive to their responsibilities in
accordance to their respective oath of office by taking proactive and strategic
action to protect the interests of the people from the South East and indeed
all Igbos everywhere. Where they fail in their duties, we shall not and when
the time of reckoning comes, every defaulter will be identified and brought to
book. Maazi Tochukwu Ezeoke President Igbo Ekunie Initiative Mr Lawrence Nwobu Secretary Igbo Ekunie Initiative