“Two names that the Fulani gave to southerners: “Yamiri”, in reference to SE and “Yariba” in reference to SW. The SE rejected that name but the SW accepted it. The name “Yoruba” derives from “Yariba” and it means “shady and unreliable I reject that strange name and label. I am not a “Yariba” or “Yoruba” but an “Omo Karo Jire” or an “Oduduwan” and my language is not “Yoruba” but “Anago”. We are what we call ourselves. We are not “shady and uneliable”(Yariba) and we must not accept names that are given to us by our historical adversaries. Any Omo Karo Jire or Oduduwan that continues to call himself a “Yoruba” is lost and does not know the implications of what he is doing to his own people. He is simply affirming and confirming an insulting label which has deep sinister, mystical and spiritual connotations. “The word “Yoruba” did not even exist until the 18th century and even then most of the tribes of the SW, including the Oyo’s, rejected it due to its origin and meaning. The word “Yoruba” is alien to our culture and not known in the Anago language. Oduduwans please take note.” –Femi Fani-Kayode I think I have to strain very hard to find something on which I agree with FFK, but this right here is historically accurate, the only caveat of course being the subjective, contentious labels of “Omo Karo Jire” and “Oduduwan” and the other political statements he makes. The other caveat is that it is not only Yoruba that is of recent provenance and is an identity fiction appropriated recently for group identity and solidarity. The same logic applies to Hausaland as well. Until the 19th century, nobody was known as an Hausa man or woman. There was no such identity. There were only speakers of Hausa dialects known by which state they belonged to–baKatsine (Katsina), baKano (Kano), etc. Even the category of “Igbo” as a collective identity is constructed and fairly recent. Many ancestors of today’s Igbo would have cringed at being called Igbo. This is one of the reasons why history is important. It modulates ethnic chauvinism and extreme group identity. When you realize that the ethnic label you’re ready to kill for is a fiction of convenient and in some cases colonial group identity, you may pause and think again. All of this said, let me hasten to add that the recency and constructed nature of identities does not make them any less real or powerful or useful. In fact most ethnic identities have a history, most ethnonyms an etymology. Both are often products of appropriation, homogenization, and political construction. And most ethnic groups were named not by themselves but by outsiders. The name “Africa” is a classic example. Until fairly recently (the 18th century) no one within the continental geography today called Africa would have called themselves “Africans” and many would have been offended to be called that. Source: Facebook