KANO – The Kano State Police Command, on Tuesday, said it is intensifying efforts to apprehend the suspects, who murdered a housewife, Malama Farida Dahiru. Already, the State Commissioner of Police, Ahmed Iliyasu has ordered a comprehensive investigation into the gruesome murder of the housewife. The three-year-old daughter of the deceased was also dumped inside a well within the Gobirawa quarters, a suburb in Ungogo Local Government Area of Kano State. The incident, according to a source, occurred on Sunday night. The assailants reportedly broke into the house of the victim and killed her inside her matrimonial home. The husband of the victim, identified as, Malam Shu’aib Abdul-Mumin, was dumbfounded at the gruesome murder of his wife. A relation of the victim, Malam Yahaya Lawal said Abdul-Mumin (husband) had just returned from the wedding party of his friend and noticed the doors of his house locked, shortly before midnight and suspected that his wife might have locked the door. He knocked on the door and got no response. Lawal said, “He persistently knocked on the door, without response. That was when he became afraid. “After several knocks, he decided to break down the door. As he entered the house, he met his wife in her own pool of blood.” Lawal said the deceased’s husband collapsed at the sight of his dead wife. According to Lawal, after killing Farida, the assailants pounced on her ailing daughter, who was undergoing treatment for malaria and dumped her into a well in the compound. Confirming the incident, spokesperson of the Kano State Police Command,  DSP Abdullahi Haruna Kiyawa, disclosed that the  State Police Commissioner, Ahmed Iliyasu, personally led officers to the scene of the incident after receiving the report. “On Monday, around 12:00 a.m., we received a sad report that some assailants broke into the house of Malam Shu’aibu Abdul-Mumin, at Gobirawa and killed his wife and daughter but spared an 11-year-old child, who is the youngest in the family of four. “So, the Police Commissioner led a team of detectives to the scene, where six suspects were arrested in connection with the incident,” he said.