By Abiodun Esan Ilorin – Kwara Government on Sunday called on the Federal Government to give special consideration to the state to address the annual ecological challenges confronting it. Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Forestry, Isiaka Al-Amin made the call in Ilorin at a news conference on problem of flood in the state. According to him, the annual flooding was as a result of the overflow of the River Niger and Asa River. “People of Kwara State have suffered greatly from ecological problems linked to yearly overflowing of these rivers. “It is only fair for the state to be considered for special palliatives to fix damaged infrastructure and economic lives of our people and mitigate the effects on the affected communities,” he added. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that the news conference followed a sensitisation tour of flood-prone areas in the state by a committee set up by Gov. AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq. NAN also reports that the inter-ministerial committee, chaired by Al-Amin, was set up as part of government’s efforts to lessen the impact of flooding in the state. Al-Amin said that the yearly overflow of the River Niger has cut off some communities, destroyed farmlands and displaced thousands of people across the state. He appealed to the Federal Government to consider urgent dredging of River Niger to end the perennial flooding. The permanent secretary also called for urgent completion of the channelisation of the Asa River to curtail the yearly flooding in the state, especially in the Kwara Central Senatorial District. “It has become pertinent to strengthen high-level advocacy and sensitisation to educate our teeming population to vacate riverine areas pending when the rain subsides. “We wish to place it on record that this is an ecological problem which requires urgent and enduring solution. “It is on this note that we call on the Federal Government to as a matter of urgency consider the dredging of the River Niger to end the perennial flooding. “This will also put an end to destruction of properties in communities bordering this river,” he said. Al-Amin said the committee has succeeded in getting some flood-prone communities to relocate temporarily to facilities provided by the government, commending the traditional leaders for their support in the campaign.