By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) –  It is often said that women are the solution to poverty. And if you want to change the world, empower women. Empowering women and girls is the key to social transformation. It is in recognition of the above that the International Federation of Women Lawyer (FIDA) empowered fifty four (54) indigent women selection from cross-section of women from the poorest of the poor. The event which took place on Saturday at the Women Centre, Abuja, is part of activities marking the 5-day FIDA Africa Regional Congress taking place in Abuja, Nigeria. FIDA  Regional Vice President, (West &North Africa) Chief Victoria  O. Awomolo, SAN said that  FIDA decided to empower 54 indigent women so that they can be self-reliant rather than just put money in the envelop and give them and they walk away and spend it. The FIDA Africa Regional Congress which entered day- two on Saturday showcased the practical display of what the beneficiaries of the empowerment programme have learnt in the past two days in their respective acquired skills. This is in line with the resolve of FIDA not just to train people, but training people and showing proof of what you have done. The women were trained in different areas such as Soap making/detergents, Pestering, Stoning and bidding with each group displaying their own work. Armed with these skills, these women would be able to help themselves and their families and be self-reliant rather than being victims of abuse and oppression. It is worthy of note that some of the abuses and violence against women are due to incapacitation and lack of skills and FIDA  has taken a right step in the right direction by empowering these women. The FIDA Africa Regional Vice President, Awomolo had on Friday, at the beginning of the Congress, while addressing newsmen, informed that the theme of the congress: “The growth of Women and Children in Africa: Beyond Rhetoric,” aims to foster the participation of and dialogue between various stakeholders, including governments, civil society organizations. This according to her was chosen not only to underscore the travails of the all over the world today, but to kick-start a dialogue on the growth and all round development of girl child and women in Africa. You know girl child grow from children to adults and then to women. So there is need to recognise their rights from youthful days and mentor them properly to become successful in future”. The Regional Vice President who noted that many countries in Africa have attempted to address the incidences of violence by enacting laws for the protection the girl child rights against oppression and abuses some of the girls child go through, however informed that huge challenges tend to limit the implementation of these laws and policies.