Some women prefer to remain single after divorce. They want to give themselves time to heal from the pain of divorce. They feel staying out of marriage will heal their broken hearts overtime. In the other hand, some marriage counselors advise victims of broken marriages, especially the women, not to rush into a new relationship.
Below are Nigerian celebrities who divorced and have not remarried. She is from a polygamous home and a family of nine. Her family was middle class with a fair amount of wealth. She had a Catholic background and grew up in Ikeja where she got a lot of her early education. The actress, who got married to Saidi Balogun in the early days of her career, had two kids until they got separated due to accusation of infidelity. She has been unmarried since then. On 15 January 2014, Makinwa married Maje Ayida, whom she had been involved with for eight years. In 2015, she separated from Ayida after discovering that he had impregnated his ex-girlfriend. On 5 October 2017, Makinwa’s marriage to Ayida was dissolved by a Lagos High Court on the grounds that Ayida committed adultery. Tonto is separated from her ex husband Oladunni Churchill. The two were traditionally married in August 2015 but divorced by February 2016. They have a son, Andre Omodayo Churchill. In June 2017, Tonto’s dad returned her traditional marriage bride price to his ex-son in law. Chika divorced her ex-husband, Tony Ebireri following accusations of infidelity. She says that she was a victim of domestic violence. In an interview with The Nation, Chika Ike was asked if she regretted getting married at the time that she had, and if it had led to the tragic end of the union. She said: “I think it has to do with so many reasons; one of them might be being young. “I think it has to do with age and so many other things like compatibility and not being true to yourself in the marriage.
”Everybody has a limit. There are some things in marriage that you might not be able to stand. Some people’s limits might not be my limit; my limit might be somebody’s starting point.” Ini Edo got married to an American-based Nigerian businessman, Philip Ehiagwina in 2008 who was previously married to a Nigerian- American model, Ruth Okoro. Edo walked out of the marriage in September 2014, following accusations of domestic violence and cheating. She opened up on her marriage, saying she has no regret breaking up with her husband of six years. The Nation