By Adelani Adepegba ABUJA – A Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps Officer, CSP Aku Attah, who was shot by suspected kidnappers in the Pegi community, Kuje Area Council, Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, is dead. Attah was on his way to his residence in Pegi after closing from work on October 8, when he was shot by the gunmen, who also abducted 10 persons, including another NSCDC personnel, Toyin Ayeni, a commercial motorcyclist and a 12-year-old boy. Our correspondent gathered that Attah, 44, died on Sunday at the Specialist Hospital, Gwagwalada, where he was receiving treatment. The spokesman for the NSCDC, Emma Okeh, said he had no information on the development. However, the Chairman, Pegi Community Development Association, Mr Taiwo Aderibigbe, confirmed Attah’s death. Aderibigbe stated that the deceased was survived by two children and aged parents, who were by his bedside when he died. “Attah died in the presence of his parents, who were at the hospital to see him. I just left his residence, where I went to commiserate with the parents on the passage of their son. His remains have been moved to the mortuary,” he said. The community leader revealed that all the 10 persons abducted by the kidnappers had been released, adding that the last victim was set free last Thursday, after the payment of an undisclosed ransom. He stated that some residents had been fleeing the community in fear, adding that residents were on the edge over the security situation in the area as a result of the upsurge in the cases of kidnapping. Though a detachment of policemen and NSCDC officers were providing security in Pegi, Aderibigbe said the residents craved the deployment of soldiers to complement the agencies. He appealed to the FCT Administration to fast-track the award of the contract for the construction of the road leading to Pegi, noting that urgent action needed to be taken against owners of abandoned plots of lands along the road to the community. He explained that most of the plots were overgrown with weeds and had become hideouts for criminals. (Punch)