By Hussaina Yakubu Kaduna – Kaduna State Government has reiterated its commitment to the fight against drug abuse, which is taking its toll on young people across the northern region. The state Deputy Governor, Dr Hadiza Balarabe, made the commitment at the opening of a 2-day summit on drug abuse organised by Drug Free Arewa Movement (DFAM), on Thurday in Kaduna. She said the state has demonstrated strong resolve in addressing the challenge using legal and institutional approaches. “Our effort is not only directed at prevention and subsequent elimination of drugs abuse but also in helping addicts to get treatment, get rehabilitation – both medical and social – and ensure integration back into the society. “We are doing this through the Kaduna State Bureau for Substance Abuse, Prevention and Treatment, an agency of government created in 2016. “This is complementary to the efforts of the National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) and the Presidential Advisory Committee on the Elimination of Drugs Abuse in Nigeria, created by President Muhammadu Buhari under the leadership of Brig. Gen. Buba Marwa (rtd).” She described drug abuse and addiction as a major issue confronting the northern region, causing diverse effects on the society. She noted that statistics have put the prevalence of substance abuse in the north at between 10% to 13.6%. “This means that between 10 to 14 persons in our region out of every 100, have a drug addiction problem.This is alarming.” The deputy governor noted that, “the problem is being heightened because illicit drugs like marijuana, cocaine, banned codeine-based cough syrups and others are becoming readily accessible and available in most neighborhoods and communities.” Mrs Balarabe expressed concern that women are also getting addicted to drugs, saying in northern Nigeria, its been found that one out of every four drug abusers is female. She also attributed the menace to the deterioration of moral values, failed parenting and weakening of the family system. “There is a lot of parental abdication of responsibilities and our communities not only condone but actually provide shelter for merchants and traffickers of drugs to operate freely, milking cash out from drug users and communities, in exchange, for the destructive substances they inject into the society.” She emphasised the need for parents to know that children, are a gift from God given in trust, and must therefore take their parenting responsibilities more seriously. In his goodwill message, the Convener DFAM, Ibrahim Yusuf said the summit  was convened out of the passion to help younger people to grow and be better citizens, living in peace, getting good health care, quality education and a secured future. “You cannot enjoy all that if people who will make that happen are involved in drugs.” He stressed  that the fight against the issue of drugs should  be a collective responsibility, as its destructive effects “know no race, religion or colour, it only kills and destroys younger generation potentials.” Yusuf said the summit would explore practical solutions to tackle the menace of drug abuse in the region. According to him, DFAM movement has series of programmes to help reach out to young people from the 19 Northern state to grow and rise up to be champions in all fields. The patron of DFAM and Etsu Nupe, Alhaji Yahaya Abubakar, also expressed concern over the high rate of drugs and substance abuse in the country. While calling on all to put hands together to address the menace, the monarch said there is need to provide sustainable process that can help address drugs issue which contribute to insecurity in the North. He noted that poverty and unemployment also contributed to the rise in drug abuse among young people, saying that there was need to provide jobs for the youth especially through agriculture. Wife of Kaduna State Governor, Mrs Asiya El-Rufai who spoke on the reintergration of rehabilitated drug addicts said, government and the society must put more efforts on prevention apart from treatment of victims. (NAN)