…Secondus Recruited As
Ally Abuja (Sundiata Post) –  The plot for who succeeds President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023 is thickening as former Secretary to the Government of the Federal, Babagana Kingibe and Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi are scheming to emerge as presidential candidate and running mate respectively on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Presidency sources who
disclosed this to Pointblankews, further revealed that the National Chairman of
the leading opposition party,  People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Prince
Uche Secondus has been conscripted into the plot. The sources said that
Secondus has not been comfortable with the goings on within the PDP in light of
a dim prospect that he would retain his national chairmanship position (having
fallen out with his political benefactor, the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom
Wike) and the fading hope that his party would return to power in 2023. It was gathered that
the combination of Kingibe, a career diplomat who has been in politics since
the second republic, and Amaechi, a former governor of Rivers State, is a plot
by the Cabal in the Presidency who are set on ensuring that they hold on to
power beyond the Buhari era. Kingibe, a former
running mate to late MKO Abiola, hails from Borno State and is considered a
close ally of the Cabal in the Presidency. While Mr Abiola was last year given
a posthumous award of the Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR)
Kingibe was  awarded the Grand Commander of the Order of the Niger (GCON). The plot by the Cabal
comes against the backdrop of agitations for power shift to the South after
Buhari’s second term. The agitation by south leaders follows declarations by
some northern leaders, including the Kaduna state governor, Nasir el-Rufai that
the power rotation system should be discarded. While el-Rufai is said
to nurse a presidential ambition in 2023, National Leader of the APC, Bola
Tinubu, the embattled Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo and former running
mate to Buhari, Pastor Tunde Bakare, are all said to also have ambitions to
succeed Buhari. However, in 2019
election campaign, the APC, in a bid to secure votes from the South, promised
to support a hand over power to the south. This was in spite of the double
speak from the Buhari-government who promised the South-East and South-West the
same ticket in 2023. However the source who
spoke to Pointblanknews on the plot of the cabal indicated that they intend to
retain the presidency in the North East where President Buhari has gotten most
of his votes over the years. The source added that
Kingibe was allegedly chosen because he is considered a real loyalist of
Buhari. “Amaechi is hoping to
emerge the running mate of Babagana Kingibe who has been endorsed by the Cabal
as Buhari’s successor. Kingibe is considered a better replacement because of
his perceived credential and a true loyalist of Buhari. He is from the North
East, a region said to be Buhari’s main stronghold in the North.” As for Secondus, the
Source said “He is not very comfortable with the ongoing in PDP and not sure if
that continues, the party has hopes in 2023. Secondus, on the other hand is
allegedly working for Rotimi Amaechi. “He is trying to ensure he doesn’t lose out
completely when the chips are down in PDP. Secondus is equally a lackey of
Amaechi,” the source added. Culled from POINTBLANKNEWS