By Damian Duruiheoma THE Imo State Commissioner of Police Rabiu Ladodo has said that eight of 15 most wanted kidnap suspects in the state have been arrested. Ladodo, who disclosed this during an interface with state governor Emeka Ihedioha in Owerri, the state capital, gave the names of some of the arrested suspects as: Ebike Nwadiuko, Henry Iwunze, aka Aboki, Chima Okorie, Collins Iwunze, Bernard Okechukwu and one other Nike also known as South. He further said that one of the suspects, Nwadiuko, is also on the wanted list of the Rivers State police command. “My command is working on ascertaining the level of damages his activities did in the state before handing him over to Rivers State,” he said. Ladodo commended the state governor, Emeka Ihedioha for his proactiveness and commitment in ensuring adequate security in the state, stressing that the introduction of the ‘Operation Iron Gate’ by the government has yielded enormous results. He added that with the cooperation and support from the governor and state government, the command made several arrests and reduced crime and criminality in the state. He said, “Before the coming of this administration, there were a lot of security challenges ranging from political crisis and crimes but I am telling you authoritatively that Imo is now calm. Ever since Governor Emeka Ihedioha came in, I know the interest and efforts he has put in place towards securing Imo.” Meanwhile, in a related development, Ihedioha has said that his administration has recorded impressive achievements in tackling security challenges in the state. Ihedioha stated this while receiving in audience the General Officer Commanding, (GOC) 82 Division, Gen. Lasisi Adeboye, and his entourage who were on a familiarisation visit to Government House, Owerri. The state governor said that the achievements in the area of security were aided by massive support of the citizens of the state and the healthy collaboration and synergy with various security agencies in the state. He assured that his administration would continue to partner and support efforts towards ridding the state of all forms of crimes and criminality. “It was a bit challenging after the elections but I think we have now found our rhythm with the collaboration of the joint forces. The Army has been working in consonance with us in tackling security challenges in the state,” he said.  