The President-General of the Association of Anambra State Development Unions (AASDU Lagos), Chief Barr. Vincent Osakwe, has commended the leadership and people of Awba-Ofemili Development Union (ADU Lagos) on the N100m civic centre fund raising. Osakwe gave this thumb up in his remarks at the maiden award and civic centre fundraising held penultimate Saturday at the Welcome Centre Hotels, International Airport Road, Lagos, hosted by the ADU Lagos led by its chairman, Mr. Remmy Nweke, who also is representative alongside Chief Benard Chidebe to AASDU Lagos. He said the project is a mark of quality leadership, which is expected of every AASDU representatives. Osakwe who was represented by a delegation led by AASDU Secretary, Barr. Ubaka Nwonwu included Chief Mezie Okwuosa, Forwarder Stanley Ezenga, Mr. Sunday Nnazor and Barr. Victor Nwakasi, also enjoined ADU Lagos members to support the current leadership of their town because they mean well from what he saw, especially on the idea of N100m civic centre so that it will come to fruition. Equally speaking, Chief Okwuosa and Forwarder Ezenga, respectively, applauded ADU Lagos leadership, asserting that they were not disappointed with the vision and urged all and sundry to ensure they contribute their quota in realization of the N100m civic centre in Lagos, so that they support their home town adequately. AASDU President, Chief Osakwe was later honoured by the chairman, ADU Lagos, Mr. Remmy Nweke, as friend of the town, for his leadership support and provision of the enabling environment for Awba-Ofemili community in Lagos to optimize available portentials so far and called for more cooperation between towns and AASDU. Earlier, Mr. Nweke in his welcome address, noted that the N100m multi-purpose civic centre is important and strategic, as “it marks the beginning of a journey to a stronger socio economic base for our dear Union in Lagos” just as he beckoned on essence of building institutions than individuals for the town to thrive. ADU Lagos, he said, conceived the idea of a multipurpose civic center, to serve as a focal point for the community gathering with facilities for indoor sporting events, theaters, concerts and shopping centre. “Specifically, the ADU Lagos Civic Centre building is estimated to cost about N100m for completion; which outside acting as ADU Lagos meeting point, will be an income generating venture through offer of services to the public by renting out its halls for events when completed. “ADU members wishing to use the hall will benefit from a special discount package,” he assured, and urged guests for support to achieve this goal, “please donate generously and you’ll be richly blessed. God loves a cheerful giver.” Even as a given percentage of the fund raised will be set aside for women empowerment, especially for widows in the town and specifically those who may have links with ADU Lagos. He also noted that Awba-Ofemili indigenes have been in Lagos for over 40 years and deserved to have a meeting point of their own, saying again that what the town needs urgently is not necessarily strong men or women, but strong institutions in Awba-Ofemili to prosper.