By Leo Sobechi Abuja (Sundiata Post) –
Speaker of House of
Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, recently gave Nigerians strong verbal cues
to recall the divisive events that defined the Eighth National Assembly (NASS).
The occasion was when the leadership team of the Bureau of Public Service Reforms,
led by Alhaji Dasuki Arab, paid a courtesy visit on the Speaker. From inception through
the four-year course of the immediate past NASS, the upper (Red) and lower
(Green) chambers were divided along the lines of pro-independence versus
pro-presidency legislators. While the then Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki
and Speaker, Yakubu Dogara, were associated with the idea of maintaining
legislative independence, the likes of current Senate President and Speaker,
Ahmad Lawan and Gbajabiamila, pandered to the whims of the Presidency. In his remarks on the
occasion of the courtesy visit by the Arab-management team, Speaker
Gbajabiamila upbraided the country’s service chiefs for failing to turn up for
a scheduled meeting with the lawmakers to cross-fertilise ideas on the issue of
securing the country. The Speaker expressed
dismay that apart from failing to attend the meeting, the service chiefs failed
to send their regrets, threatening that he would report the security chiefs’
nonchalance to President Muhammadu Buhari. So pained was the
House leadership that they turned back representatives sent by the Chief of
Defence Staff, Abayomi Olonisakin, Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Tukur Buratai,
Chief of the Naval Staff (CNS), Ibok Ekwe Ibas and the Chief of the Air Staff
(CAF), Sadique Abubakar. While describing the
action of the top military brass as an insult to the parliament, Gbajabiamila
said reporting them to President Buhari is an appropriate way to register the
lawmakers’ displeasure, even as he postponed the meeting and apologized to
Mohammed Adamu, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Yusuf Bichi and Muhammad
Babandede, the Director-General of the Department of State Services (DSS) and
Comptroller General (CG) of Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) respectively. From his countenance,
there was no doubt that Speaker Gbajabiamila was greatly distressed by the
Service Chiefs’ failure to honour the House’s summons. But Nigerians remembered
how a section of the lawmakers sided with the Service Chiefs and para-military
personnel during the 8th plenary when they carried on as if they were above the
law. Attempts by the
Saraki/Dogara led 8th NASS to bring the service chiefs to a round table
discussion in effort to find solution to the spiraling insecurity in the country
did not receive their buy-in even as the security chiefs were condoned by the
likes of Gbajabiamila, who saw the plan as attempt to pin the tag of
incompetence on President Buhari. It was gathered that
most Nigerians were not amused by the current Speaker’s outrage as the security
chiefs served him and his colleagues their own hemlock, especially as he fumed:
“This is an insult and a sad development, because all arms of government are
supposed to work in unison for the development of the country and the benefit
of Nigerians…