By Chukwuemeka Opara Abakaliki – The Ebonyi Commissioner for Projects Monitoring and Evaluation, Chief Ukie Ezeali, has assured the people that the Gov. David Umahi-led administration will complete all existing projects before leaving office. Ezeali, who gave the assurance while speaking with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abakaliki on Tuesday, added that the governor would not start what he would not finish. “Considering what the government achieved in its first tenure, I want to allay all fears bordering on its non-completion of the numerous projects it embarked upon. “The state is on auto-pilot mode as the governor has infused the spirit of effective utilisation of resources into us to work whether he is around or not. “All the projects being embarked on in the state are viable and would ensure that Ebonyi is turned into an investment hub presently and in the future,” he said. Ezeali said that with the prudent management of resources in state, the usual high cost of construction of projects had been reduced and huge amount of money saved. “The average cost of a kilometre of concrete-paved road is N155 to N165 million, including two side drains as against what is obtainable in other states. “We have ensured that it is criminal for any head of monitoring or regulatory agency to be enticed with bribe for compromise on his core duties. “I came from the private-sector where what counts is ‘man-hour’ and I have warned all my staff to be proactive to judiciously earn their pay,” he said. Ezeali said that to achieve his office’s mandate of executing projects according to stipulated standard and specifications, the ministry had recruited additional personnel. “They have been permanently posted to all project locations in the state and we have also provided quality manuals and guidelines, while equipping our personnel with latest technological practices. “Our prime objective is always value for money and to strictly monitor cost using the principles of value of work done. “We also ensure that no contractor is paid for jobs not executed, while paying reasonably using the best costing approach,” he said.