The past few days have proven that all is not well in the presidential villa. Claims and counter claims have shown a history of disagreement between first lady, Aisha Buhari and Mamman Daura’s family. From accusations of Mamman Daura controlling the president to his daughters not letting Aisha Buhari into a building they were evicted from, Nigerians share their thoughts about the situation. I said that video of Aisha Buhari was taken when her son was involved in an accident, and a lot of commenters doubted that. Mamman Daura’s daughter has confirmed this in her BBC Hausa interview – that the drama was because Yusuf Buhari was meant to recuperate in that apartment. https://t.co/0VN8FFrGNO That Fatimah Duara interview with @thecableng admitting she secretly filmed @aishambuhari isn't funny at all. It's a serious security breach. Such sense of entitlement like Mamman Daura is co @NGRPresident ?@MBuhari needs to put his "home front" together. Disgusting. pic.twitter.com/lj09S7lBsZ If I didn't read that on The Cable, I'd have doubted it's authenticity.Why is Mamman Daura's daughter granting an interview shading the wife of the President?Where is the line? I don't understand why a daughter of Mamman Daura will grant interview to BBC in such reckless and disrespectful manner about what happened at the Aso Rock with Aisha, no matter what, Aisha deserve her FULL respect as the first Lady, keep your internal family problems to yourself The unofficial president of Nigeria is Mamman Daura and the vice is Abba Kyari. If you are in doubt, go and ask Madam Aisha Buhari. pic.twitter.com/czNeTrNCpe I blame Buhari for undermining his wife. First he said she belongs to his kitchen & d ozza room. Then he said he does not recognize the office of the First Lady.Buhari single handedly orchestrated all that his wife Aisha is going through at the hands of Mamman Daura’s daughter. What Aisha is facing in the hands of Mamman Daura and his family is what almost every married woman faces in the hands of the husband’s family. It is an eternal battle the African woman has to face to keep her family. Tough battle for the men but they MUST draw the line Mamman Daura's daughter can circulate a secretly covered video of of the first lady in the presidential villa on social media in order to reinforce a fake news, without consequences Journalists doing their job are being charged for terrorism Animal farm #PressFreedom Unpopular opinion: Mamman Daura is the Most powerful person in Nigeria!!!You guys know nothing i swear!!