Kenyan singer, Victoria Kimani, who was formerly signed to Chocolate City label has been accused of sleeping with musician, Wizkid after she took a swipe at rapper MI Abaga. It all started when she tweeted: ‘Damn man ….. Vector just killed the rat..May it RIP’, in response to Vector’s lastest diss track targeted at MI which made serious buzz yesterday. Recall that MI Abaga and Vector are both involved in an ongoing social media beef battle that has seen them release different diss tracks. Yesterday, Following the release of Vector ‘Tha’ Viper’s diss track tackling M.I Abaga, Chocolate city, Jesse Jagz and others, reactions trailed the song on social media and a former label mate of MI, Victoria Kimani took an aim at the Chocolate City Boss. Following her tweet, fans of MI attacked her for such betrayal coming from a former label mate. A fan of MI went to the extent of accusing Kimani of sleeping with Wizkid when he was still dating Tania Omotayo. The accuser who apparently, ‘had receipts’ revealed that Tanya caught Kimani in bed with Wizkid and she almost beat her up. The accuser identified as Pearl wrote; “Victoria you are a real disgrace to womanhood and Chocolate City team that has had your back for years even with all your bad misbehaviors. I will expose you for the person you really are since you decided to involve yourself in what doesn’t concern you. “This same CC team including Ice and MI were the ones begging for you when you were always going to sleep with Wiz even if you knew he was dating Tania and she caught you and almost beat you up that you had to jump window.” “Now you come out with your disloyal self to chat sh** of this same people. Please I beg you try and deny it cos I have receipts and more of the type of person you are. The biggest snake of all. Just sit this one out!” Kimani immediately responded. Though she didn’t ‘deny’ the accusations. Her reply may just mean the accuser was right. Kimani wrote; “Lmao. Aww this was Cute. 1. You must be one of M’s side chicks that he had working for free at the same office his girl was slaving at. 2. I can sleep with who I want, when I want ..how I want. in any position I want ..so what’s next. 3. Love ya sis” Follow the screenshots below: