By David Adeoye Ibadan – The Oyo state government has commenced negotiation with a global drug manufacturer, Cobalt Partners, on the supply of drugs and medical equipment to the state. The state Commissioner for Health, Dr Bashir Bello, disclosed this while speaking with newsmen on Wednesday, in Ibadan. Bello said the move to work with the drug company was hinged on the need to have only genuine drugs to be supplied to all the health institutions in the state and put a stop to the risk of unreliable drugs that might worsen people’s health conditions. “We are in talk with Cobalt Partners because of their reputation as suppliers of genuine drugs globally, and it has been reported that the company has products that of high standard and reliability. “The present administration will not just buy and distribute drugs; it will make sure that the drugs procured are genuine and will not compound the health conditions of the people who need them,” he said. Meanwhile, the state government has revealed its plan to partner with the Association of Nigerian Professionals in the United States, under the umbrella of Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) Alumni, to offer free medical services to the people of the state. According to the commissioner, the free health mission, which will involve general medical services, eye operations and minor surgeries, among others, will be done in various medical institutions within the state. He said that government was fully prepared to play its part in the arrangement to ensure that the number of people, who would benefit, exceeded that of neighbouring states where the free healthcare service by the alumni had taken place. “We hope that our people will benefit from the free medical services. In the previous years, the association had attended to 5,000 people. This time around, we want them to start first in Oyo state and probably use a week for the operation. “This is part of our plans to make healthcare delivery accessible, affordable and qualitative for our people,” Bello stated. (NAN)