The All Progressives Congress (APC) has said it is working tirelessly to make inroads into the South-East through the Anambra State governorship election, next year. The National Organising Secretary of the party, Emma Ibediro, who gave the assurances in a chat with The Nation in Abuja on Friday, also commended President Muhammadu Buhari for his magnanimity towards the region notwithstanding the performance of the party in the region during the general elections. Ibediro, who lamented the political twist in the region prior and during the general elections, thanked President Buhari for committing to the completion of the second Niger Bridge and for approvinging funds the rebuilding of the Akanu Ibiam International Airport in Enugu. Ibediro, who charged the people of the region to support Buhari as he continues to rebuild Nigeria, however, assured that the losses of the party in the last election in the South-East would be compensated for in the governorship election coming up in Anambra State, noting that all hands were on deck to realise this. “I think what happened in the last election is a big lesson for the South-East and I believe that all hands are on deck now to make sure that the next election that will involve the party in the South-East, the party will show a better outing. We are working towards that and Anambra is the next election we are looking at, we are doing everything to make sure that our fortunes turn around in Anambra state. “We have to thank the president, President Muhammadu Buhari, for the reception he granted to the governors and leaders of the South-East, who paid him a visit yesterday. It has gone to show that the president is a man who is always looking forward to the future, without counting whatever must have happened in the past. “For a zone that showed a very poor outing as it concerned the president during the last election, one would have thought the president wouldn’t have been that magnanimous in granting that audience and going further to intensify efforts in the construction of the second Niger Bridge and now approving a whooping sum of N10 billion for the restructuring and rehabilitation of Akanu Ibiam International Airport in Enugu, at a time when government is looking at every corner to cut cost in governance. “We must commend the president for that gesture and show of kindness towards the South-East and implore our people to reciprocate such good gesture in their support for him as he goes about trying to fix the nation,” he said. The party leader also dismissed insinuations that the party would disintegrate at the end of President Buhari’s rule, noting that those making the insinuation are oblivious of the party’s steady success, which he said the voting Nigerians are carefully observing, adding that those making the insinuation are far from the grassroots. “All these are political statements and you would not expect anything better from the opposition, but I want to tell you that with the foundations that are being laid by this government, in terms of infrastructure, in terms of bringing back those things that have been denied Nigerians for a very long time. “It’s not about party, politics actually belongs to the people. So when you see some Abuja tigers make some statements, it is not a true reflection of the positions in the real communities, where the actual votes come from. “You remember nobody believed APC was going to make any impact in the last election. Some were saying Buhari was going to lose, but by the time we attended campaigns in all the states and you saw the people responded to the president, we were sure even before the election that we were going to win. “I want to tell you that most of the changes that are going on silently, they are going on in the minds of the people, the actual owners of the votes, not in the imaginations of some political tigers, who play Abuja politics”, he said.