Doris Esa Abuja – The Chief of the Naval Staff (CNS), Vice Adm. Ibok-Ete Ibas, has called for improved synergy between the Nigerian Navy and the Cameroonian Navy at the level of operations. Navy Director of Information, Commodore Suleman Dahun, made this known in a statement in Abuja on Thursday. Ibas made the call during a bilateral meeting with the Cameroonian CNS, Rear Adm. Jean Mendoua, on the sidelines of the recent Global Maritime Security Conference in Abuja. He stressed the need for enhanced interaction between Naval Bases in Douala and Limbe in Cameroon and NNS VICTORY and JUBILEE in Calabar and Ikot Abasi in Nigeria The CNS said that such level of interaction would check incidences of sea robbery, smuggling and kidnapping in the maritime domain between both countries. He requested for access to weekly security reports from the Interregional Coordination Centre in Yaounde. Ibas emphasised that such collaboration would ensure that ships transiting both countries were sea worthy and complied with international regulations and standards. The CNS acknowledged several bilateral and multilateral cordial relations between the governments of the Republic of Cameroon and Nigeria in curbing insecurity. He invited his Cameroonian counterpart to attend the 2020 Nigerian Navy International Maritime Conference and Regional Maritime Exercise. Speaking, Mendoua appreciated the improved cordial relationship between the Nigerian Navy and Cameroonian Navy especially along the common borders of the two countries and in the effort against terrorism. He expressed optimism for enhanced collaboration between the two navies in years to come as the Cameroonian Navy evolves. In a related development, Ibas also advocated for closer collaboration between the Nigerian Navy and Brazilian Navy. Ibas made the call during bilateral talks with the Commander in Chief, Brazilian Navy Fleet, Admiral Jose Augusto De Menezez on the sidelines of the Global Maritime Security Conference in Abuja. He identified the prospects of future collaborations between the navies of the two countries to include strengthening Nigerian Navy research and development efforts, fleet renewal, small boats construction, armament supplies and dockyard management. The CNS said that prospects of the collaboration would be enhanced with the speedy conclusion of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on defence cooperation between the two countries. Responding De Menezez noted that Brazil and Nigeria share similar culture and common socio-economic challenges that requires closer collaboration. He reaffirmed the commitment of the Brazilian Navy to continue collaborating with the Nigerian Navy on issues of maritime security. (NAN)