Juba Juba, – South Sudan’s parties to the peace agreement vowed on Thursday to establish a new unity government on Nov. 12, in spite of challenges.’ The cabinet affairs Minister, Martin Elia, said the Pre-Transitional National Committee was making efforts toward implementing fundamental provisions that would pave way for the formation of an inclusive government as stipulated in the peace deal. The minister made the disclosure at a two-day conference, organised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation to brief foreign missions about the country’s foreign policy. Elia said the parties remained committed to ending violence in the oil-rich, but war-torn country, adding that the security arrangement had continued to make positive progress. “The outstanding issues facing the revitalised peace agreement will not prevent the parties from proceeding to establish the transitional government of national unity on Nov. 12, as the parties agreed,” Elia said. He reiterated that the country would develop curriculum and syllabi for the training of the security forces. “The pre-transitional issues that remained unresolved cannot stop the parties to the revitalised peace agreement from forming a unified government by the Nov. 12, deadline,” said Elia. “Signatories to the fragile peace agreement on May 3, agreed to extend the formation of the transitional government by six months following delays in the implementation of the pact over unresolved issues. “South Sudan descended into conflict in Dec. 2013, after President Salva Kiir sacked his deputy Riek Machar, leading to fighting between soldiers loyal to both leaders. However, the conflict killed tens of thousands and displaced millions both internally and externally. A peace deal signed in 2015 collapsed after renewed violence in July 2016, forcing Machar to flee the capital Juba. In September 2018, the warring South Sudanese parties also signed a revitalised peace deal, in which Machar would take up one of the four vice presidency positions in the transitional government. (Xinhua/NAN) /NAN) South Sudan’s parties to the peace agreement vowed on Thursday to establish a new unity government on Nov. 12, in spite of challenges. The cabinet affairs Minister, Martin Elia, said the Pre-Transitional National Committee was making efforts toward implementing fundamental provisions that would pave way for the formation of an inclusive government as stipulated in the peace deal. The minister made the disclosure at a two-day conference, organised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation to brief foreign missions about the country’s foreign policy. Elia said the parties remained committed to ending violence in the oil-rich, but war-torn country, adding that the security arrangement had continued to make positive progress. “The outstanding issues facing the revitalised peace agreement will not prevent the parties from proceeding to establish the transitional government of national unity on Nov. 12, as the parties agreed,” Elia said. He reiterated that the country would develop curriculum and syllabi for the training of the security forces. “The pre-transitional issues that remained unresolved cannot stop the parties to the revitalised peace agreement from forming a unified government by the Nov. 12, deadline,” said Elia. “Signatories to the fragile peace agreement on May 3, agreed to extend the formation of the transitional government by six months following delays in the implementation of the pact over unresolved issues. “South Sudan descended into conflict in Dec. 2013, after President Salva Kiir sacked his deputy Riek Machar, leading to fighting between soldiers loyal to both leaders. However, the conflict killed tens of thousands and displaced millions both internally and externally. A peace deal signed in 2015 collapsed after renewed violence in July 2016, forcing Machar to flee the capital Juba. In September 2018, the warring South Sudanese parties also signed a revitalised peace deal, in which Machar would take up one of the four vice presidency positions in the transitional government. (Xinhua/NAN)