BENIN CITY- Edo State Deputy Governor, Rt. Hon. Comrade Philip Shaibu has expressed his appreciation to All Progressives Congress (APC) Arewa Youth Leaders for endorsing the administration of Governor Godwin Obaseki, for a second tenure. The Deputy Governor expressed this when he
received the youth leadership in his office on behalf of Governor Obaseki,
saying that irrespective of ones state of origin, “Nigeria is one and Edo State
being the heartbeat of the country is unique as it’s heart beats, to accommodate
Nigerians.” Shaibu stated that Edo people were very hospitable, a positive attribute which doubled as a statement of fact which has helped to attract people from diverse cultural and ethnic backgrounds to build homes in the state. He thanked the Arewa youths for their
cooperation on security matters which has led to the relative peace between
cattle rearers and farmers in the state. He said, “We promised to have law and order in
the state which you have attested to today. Before now, certain individuals’
lives were dependent on a disorderly society through which they put
government’s money in their personal pockets instead of government’s account.” He revealed that it has become history,
taxpayers money is now used to coordinate and develop infrastructural
development across the state. He said that real power lay in the hands of the
masses who exercise their strength by coming together to elect leaders of their
choice into political office. The Deputy Governor noted that the endorsement
will helped to point the path for the administration to toe as it was an
affirmation that, “We are taking the right path which would be improved on, to
attract people to the state.” Edo State APC Arewa Youth Leader, Iliya Sabo
Akwanga who led the delegation observed with regrets that past administrations
in the state marginalized Arewa youths, adding that they were never recognized
when it mattered. It’s not so in this dispensation, we are free and secure here
doing our business.” The Edo State APC Arewa Youth Secretary, Comrade Salisu Abdullahi praised the developmental strides Godwin Obaseki has made in the state which he said, earned him the endorsement for a second tenure in office by the Arewa Youths.