By Millicent Lagos – A Filmmaker and Cinematographer, Godwin Nwachukwu, on Tuesday said that his much-anticipated family drama series would soon be out on TV Show. In a statement signed by Nwachukwu in Lagos, it says that Amanda was an awareness raiser on salient social issues affecting girl-child development, including trafficking and molestation. He said that the series hoped to equip women with skills for surviving in the modern society. “With its engrossing story line and star-studded cast of front line actors in the Nigerian screen business, Amanda is the final product of years of intence background work, involving research and observation of real life happenings at locations in Lagos and Delta states. “Some of the big names in the cast include rave of the moment and award-winning kid talent, Angel Onyi Unigwe. “Others are, comic actor Francis Odega, Ejiro Okurame, Vincent Opurum, Tony Akposheri and Africa Movie Academy Award nominee for Best Actress in a Supporting Role in 2016, Maureen Okpoko, among others. “The series was produced using state-of-the-art equipment and it is planned to be the longest running drama in Nigerian television history. “Our priority right now is to make sure every home gets to see this series especially those who live in remote and rural areas whose primary goal is urban migration,’’ he said. In the drama, according to him, Amanda’s father dies suddenly following a land dispute. Nwachukwu said that the death left her widowed mother with no other choice than to believe that sending Amanda to the city was the only way to give her a future. He added that high level danger that awaited the girl was something no one bargained for. Nwachukwu said: “We hope to deepen the conversation. And we hope that the effort will get interested parties talking once again. “Trafficking in persons is unacceptable and until we paint these pictures and take them to living rooms, we cannot say that we have effectively broadened the scope of public attention and scrutiny on the subject in all forms.’’ According to the cinematographer, Amanda is directed by Akan Archibong, it is a product of School2 Productions, which made its debut movie production in 2005 with Family Passion featuring Jim Iyke, Patience Ozokwo, Gabriel Afolayan, Jide Kosoko and a host of others. He said that 26 episodes were ready for airing, while hoping to go back to location soon to continue with production. (NAN)