By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The House of Representatives on Wednesday called for President Muhammadu Buhari’s intervention for a speedy completion of the rehabilitation of Akanu Ibiam International airport, Enugu. Sundiata Post recalls that the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) on August 24, 2019, closed down Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu to allow for rehabilitation works of the runway. Shortly after the closure, the Honourable Minister of Aviation, Hardi Sirika visited Enugu and after a meeting with governors and stakeholders in the South East, affirmed that the rehabilitation would be completed by Christmas 2019. However, the House of Reps therefore expressed worry that six (6) weeks after closure of the airport, no rehabilitation or reconstruction work has begun at the airport even as there are no indications that the contractor would mobilize to site any time soon. Concerned that the major arterial routes leading to other alternate airports or leading to the southeast have dilapidated and burdens the travelling public. The motion for the intervention and speedy completion was presented at plenary by Hon Toby Okechukwu, Hon Nkiruka Onyejiocha and 12 others. The House of Reps members expressed worry that in spite of the December 2019 deadline which is fast approaching, no contractor has been mobilized to the site and no fund released for the rehabilitation works. The House said that the funding model for the renovation of Nnamdi Azikwe International Airport, Abuja would save Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu from protracted closure. Adding that Akanu Ibiam International Airport is critical to the safety, economic and social lives of most Nigerians and foreign travelers. After heated debate, the House of Reps called on Mr. President to intervene and ensure immediate commencement of works at the Airport, It also mandated the House Committee on Aviation to interface with the Minister of Aviation to ensure immediate commencement of works,Call on the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing at the interim to expedite repairs of the major roads leading to the alternative routes and airports to alleviate the suffering of members of the public.