By Augustine Ehikioya Abuja – OVER N1 trillion stolen from government
treasury has been recovered, Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee
Against Corruption (PACAC), Prof. Itse Sagay, said on Thursday. The figure is exclusive of the cash and
property stashed abroad and recovered, he added. Besides, Sagay told reporters at the
Presidential Villa in Abuja, that N5 trillion government funds in the hands of
big time delinquent borrowers would be recovered. Sagay (SAN) spoke with State House
correspondents after a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari. He said the recovered funds were being ploughed
back into the national budget For instance, he said funds for the Social
Investment Programmes (SIPs) were sourced from the recovered loot. He said: “I think the money so far recovered is
roughly almost about N1 trillion. You (can) see that in 2017, N500 billion was
spent on this Social Investment Programme and in 2018 the same amount (was
budgeted) for the programme. “So, it must be roughly about N1 trillion
although we also have monies that were recovered from abroad and being ploughed
back into the same system.” he said He declared that corruption had been reduced in
the country. The committee, he said, stopped the N400
billion yearly loss to fake fuel subsidy. “In the area of recoveries, I don’t need to
tell anybody, it is unprecedented in the annals of this country that we could
be recovering so much assets illegally acquired mainly by public servants but
not only by public servants. “And the more remarkable aspect of it is that
this recovered loot is being ploughed into the national budget every year. It
is ploughed back into the national budget and used for the Social Investment
Programme (SIP). “So, when you hear about feeding of over 12
million school children as at when I checked last having nutritious meal every
day, you hear of poor families being supported to survive and stand on their
feet or over 500,000 young people who are being trained in all sorts of skills
and paid N30,000 a month by the government and the interest free loans given to
small scale businesses all over the country. “It’s all part of this money, not a kobo of it
is left, everything is ploughed back and I think the country should know that,
it’s very unprecedented, this never happened before in the history of this country,
everything is ploughed back. “Then, we have succeeded in improving the
quality of prosecution by giving the anti-corruption  agencies a lot of
capacity building, train them in the manner cases should be prosecuted and how
charges should be drawn. Judges up to the Supreme Court have also benefitted
from this programme.” he said Sagay added: “In the area of corruption, you
will be surprised if you think back that nobody talks about fuel subsidy
corruption anymore. Previously we were losing almost N400 billion every year on
fake fuel subsidy payments but now, it is zero. “So, generally, the tone of the country has
improved. The country has gained tremendously, corruption has gone down. There
is still corruption but it has gone down and anybody who indulges, particularly
an officer of a state who engages in it, knows the risk he is taking. “We have the TSA, we have the bank verification
number, all those things have made an incredible change in our level of
anti-corruption. “Now you cannot hide money in the banks anymore
and agencies cannot hide money in various banks accounts which they spend
without the knowledge of the government. Everything is in one place, everything
is transparent, thanks to this government.” he stated According to him, the Asset Management
Corporation of Nigeria, (AMCOM) is determined to recover the estimated N5
trillion debts. He said: “AMCOM itself has taken up the
challenge, they  have assessed the amount of debt being owed some as a
result of corruption, others as a result of purely business failures and they
are very determined now to recover these debts and I am aware there is a lot of
vigour in an attempt to recover the debts right now. “We don’t have any direct role in this area
although whatever they do will benefit the country because it is about N5
trillion involved, so they are vigorously fighting it under the new management
and committee that  was set up and I think they will recover a lot if not
all.” On corruption fighting back, he said that the
Eight National Assembly spearheaded the gang up against anti-graft battle in
the country.  He however commended the Ninth National Assembly. He said “The issue of corruption fighting back,
that is to be expected but I am happy to say that the capacity of corruption to
fight back has been reduced with the expiration of the life of Eight Assembly
because that is where the main opposition to this government was constituted,
main opposition to the fight against corruption, that was the centre and at
that time, it did not depend on which party they belonged to, they all ganged
up together against the anti-corruption fight and did everything they could to
frustrate the government and ourselves in the this fight. “Luckily, the Ninth Assembly is a totally
different Assembly. It is an assembly that is determined to work hand in hand
with the government and therefore with us in achieving the highest level of no
corruption in the society.” he said. Read
Also: Sagay: suspension legally, morally right To Sagay, “when you have a disease that has
been alive maybe 50 years, you cannot get rid of it overnight. My own personal
experience about corruption, it exists at every level, that is the frightening
aspect, through all sectors of society. “As a lawyer going to court to file a paper,
every official of the court imposes a personal tax which has nothing to do with
the official filing fees to do his job. These are clerical officers and much
lower people and this pervades all aspects of Nigerian society. “So, corruption has become a culture, some
people are corrupt without even thinking that they are corrupt, it is part of
them. They think it is an entitlement.” According to him, it is going to take a long
time to get rid of corruption in Nigeria. “So it is going to take a long time to get rid
of it. That is why the National Orientation Agency and the major documents that
have been produced, anti-corruption Strategy lays some emphasis on
acculturating Nigerian with regard to fight against corruption, going to schools,
NGOs, civil society organisations and so on, to preach the message of
anti-corruption, to give incentives to those who are not corrupt so that people
will be encouraged to imbibe that culture. “It is a long term thing, all we can do as it’s
being done is that concentration is at the top where powerful people are using
state funds for themselves, eventually it will go down as this culture is being
progressively imbibed.” he said Speaking on the challenges facing his
committee, he said, the challenges are not serious ones. He said “Well, we are doing pretty well.
Previously, we were afraid that when the initial donor agency funds will be
exhausted which we exhausted last year, we will be in trouble, but I must say
the government and various other bodies in this country which I will not want
to mention, have come to support PACAC with funds and so we are able to carry
on our activities at the same speed as before regardless of the fact that the
foreign donors are no longer funding us apart from MacAuthour that still fund
programmes from time to time. “So, there are always challenges but we don’t
have any serious ones at all. We are doing our work; there is a large variety
of work that we do in various areas both remote and immediate, to support the
anti-corruption struggle.”