By Chibuike
Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Deputy President of the Senate,
Ovie Omo-Agege has commended International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA) for
her advocacy works which the senator said has yielded tremendous results. Senator Omo-Agege gave the commendation during the plenary
session of FIDA Africa Regional Congress taking place in Abuja. According to the senator who was represented at the occasion
by Dr Otibe Ibuzor, “FIDA’s advocacy works has yielded results in either
facilitating the enacting of the legal instruments or popularizing them.
Example, the Violence Against Persons Prohibition Acts 2015 and the
Administration of Criminal Justice Act, 2015. Other advocacy works includes
those on International Convention on Civil and political rights, the African
Charter on Human Rights as well as Universal Charter on Human Rights among
other instruments that help to guarantee the rights of women and children. In recognition of your efforts, you were honoured by the Federal Government for your contribution in helping stem child abuse. Also, during the constitution of delegates for the 2014 National Conference, FIDA Nigeria was given its slot. The actions leading to these recognitions are your activities worthy of emulation by other Chapters over Africa, he added. Omo-Agege said that it was the awareness FIDA created over
the years that informed his decision to introduce the Sexual Harassment in Tertiary
Institutions Prohibition Bill in the 8th Assembly. Stressing that he
has, at the last plenary session of this present 9th Assembly, re-introduced
the bill. The bill is expected that when the bill becomes law, it will help
bring sexual predators in our tertiary institutions to check. The Deputy Senate President assured that the present will
continue to amend our legislations and produce new ones that will further help
to protect women and children and called on FIDA to partner with the National
Assembly to ensure the passage of the bill. He called on state
chapters of FIDA to adopt plans and programs successful adopted in some states
in their respective states. Also, the Deputy Senate president called on FIDA to as a matter of deliberate policy, expose its members to leadership training course as this will help the organization realize its goals faster. The plenary session concluded among other things that: That all the laws are in 
place but that what is lacking is enforcement That there is a worrying rise in violence against women
which astitute journalism is exposing. There can be no meaningful development in Africa if there is
no inclusion of women. Women are always left behind when it comes to political
appointment. Treaties have nnot been implemented to the letters. Women exclusion is wrong, marginalization of women is wrong,
abuse of women wrong. Gender equality is a fundamental human rights.