In my Sept. 28, 2019 article, I described Yemi Osinbajo as “a groveling, cowardly toady” who, “[i]nstead of confronting the real demons that are tormenting him, … has chosen to transfer his aggression elsewhere by intimidating and overawing soft, weak targets.” That was not intended as an insult; it was merely a faithful description of his person. His cringe-worthy, Independence Day sycophantic drooling to Buhari, Aisha Buhari, and Bola Tinubu— clearly designed to stave off his impending impeachment and removal—is a testament to what I said about him. “Let me first congratulate my boss, President, [sic] Muhammadu Buhari; His Excellency and our national leader, Ahmed Bola Tinubu; First Lady and mother of the nation, Dr. Aisha Muhammadu Buhari,” he wrote in absurdly syrupy, uneducated English. He continued even more fawningly: “Fellow Nigerians, be rest assured [sic] that President Muhammadu Buhari is totally committed to his promises and the Next Level Agenda [sic]. He is the best boss and I find it thrilling to serve Nigeria under him. It is only responsible of me to give my unwavering loyalty to President Buhari…” (The grammatically correct expression, by the way, is “rest assured.”) When was the last time you read such embarrassingly obsequious wheedling from a vice president? The CAN religious intimidation card he pulled against the cabal obviously hasn’t worked, so he is trying mawkishly saccharine flattery. The truth is that all the leaks about Osinbajo’s eye-watering corruption were sponsored by members of the cabal in the Presidential Villa— with the active consent of Buhari himself. I’ve known about the allegations from friends close to the cabal since February, but I refused to publicize them because Osinbajo’s accusers aren’t morally superior to or distinguishable from him. They are all stained with the same inerasable ethical dirt. Osinbajo is toadying to the very people he knows are behind the reputationally injurious leaks against him for which he is on a wildly frivolous litigious frenzy against weak, inconsequential targets. He called Buhari his “boss” for whom he pledged “unwavering loyalty” (as if he has any other option), and sweetened his exaggerated fawning even further by calling his wife “Dr.,” even though, like him, she doesn’t have a doctoral degree, and the Association of Vice Chancellors of Nigerian Universities in its October 3, 2012 “Keffi Declaration” said recipients of honorary doctorates can’t prefix “Dr.” to their names. He called Tinubu “His Excellency” even when Tinubu holds no official position that justifies that title. He is appeasing Tinubu with cloying titular flattery because Tinubu has endorsed his humiliation and imminent removal on account of suspicion that he’s stacking up resources for a presidential run in 2023. Osinbajo is now sufficiently chastened and may be spared the humiliation of being impeached and removed, but he’ll certainly go down in the records as Nigeria’s VP with the least sense of self-worth. Source: Facebook