Some women prefer to remain single after divorce. They want to give themselves time to heal from the pain of divorce.They feel staying out of marriage will heal their broken hearts overtime. In the other hand, some marriage counselors advise victims of broken marriages, especially the women, not to rush into a new relationship. Below are Nigerian celebrities who divorced and have not remarried.* Fathia Balogun *Fathia Balogunwas born to the family of Mr. & Mrs. Williams on February 5th, 1969 in Ukwara, Water Side Local Government in Delta State. She attended Olufunmila Nursery School, Ikeja, Lagos State Maryland Primary School, Maryland, Lagos State Maryland Comprehensive High School, Lagos Kwara State Polytechnic, Kwara State. She is from a polygamous home and a family of nine. Her family was middle class with a fair amount of wealth. She had a Catholic background and grew up in Ikeja where she got a lot of her early education. The actress, who got married to Saidi Balogun in the early days of her career, had two kids until they got separated due to accusation of infidelity. She has been unmarried since then. * Toke Makinwa *Toke Makinwa was born on 3 November 1984. She is a radio personality, television host, vlogger, lifestyle entrepreneur and author. She is known for hosting The Morning Drive on Rhythm 93.7 FM and her YouTube vlog series Toke Moments. She released her book On becoming in November 2016.On 15 January 2014, Makinwa married Maje Ayida, whom she had been involved with for eight years. In 2015, she separated from Ayida after discovering that he had impregnated his ex-girlfriend. On 5 October 2017, Makinwa’s marriage to Ayida was dissolved by a Lagos High Court on the grounds that Ayida committed adultery.* Tonto Dikeh *Tonto Dikeh was born on 9th June 1985 in Port Harcourt, Nigeria. Born as Tonto Wigo Charity Dikeh, she hails from Rivers State and is from Ikwerre, a subgroup of the Igbo tribe. Born in a family of seven, she is the third out of five siblings and two siblings from her step-mother. Her parents are Chief Sunny Dikeh & the late Mrs Sunny Dikeh. She lost her mother at the age of three. Tonto is separated from her ex husband Oladunni Churchill. The two were traditionally married in August 2015 but divorced by February 2016. They have a son, Andre Omodayo Churchill. In June 2017, Tonto’s dad returned her traditional marriage bride price to his ex-son in law.*Chika Ike *Chika Ike born Chika ‘Nancy’ Ike is a Nigerian actress, television personality, producer, businesswoman, philanthropist, and former model. She was born on November 8, 1985, in Onitsha, Anambra. She is a human kinetics and health education graduate of the University of Lagos and a graduate of New York Film Academy Los Angeles where she studied film making. Chika started her acting career at the age of 5 in church plays. Chika divorced her ex-husband, Tony Ebireri following accusations of infidelity. She says that she was a victim of domestic violence. In an interview with The Nation, Chika Ike was asked if she regretted getting married at the time that she had, and if it had led to the tragic end of the union. She said: “I think it has to do with so many reasons; one of them might be being young. “I think it has to do with age and so many other things like compatibility and not being true to yourself in the marriage. ”Everybody has a limit. There are some things in marriage that you might not be able to stand. Some people’s limits might not be my limit; my limit might be somebody’s starting point.” *Ini Edo *Ini Edo was born on April 19, 1982, in Calabar, Cross River State. Edo is popularly known as a Nigerian actress. She began her film career in 2000 and has featured in more than 100 movies since that time. In 2013, she was a judge for the Miss Black Africa UK Pageant. The United Nations appointed her as the United Nations Habitat Youth Envoy in 2011. Ini Edo got married to an American-based Nigerian businessman, Philip Ehiagwina in 2008 who was previously married to a Nigerian- American model, Ruth Okoro. Edo walked out of the marriage in September 2014, following accusations of domestic violence and cheating. She opened up on her marriage, saying she has no regret breaking up with her husband of six years. Source