Olukayode Babalola/Oboh Linus Lafia – Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Nasarawa state Command, says the command has impounded 219 motorcycles and Tricycles in two days over several violations in the state. Mr Maiwada Kugu, FRSC Sector Commander in the state, made the disclosure  in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lafia on Friday. NAN reports that FRSC is conducting an enforcement of drivers licence and number plates for motorcycles and tricycles nationwide beginning from Oct. 2. Kugu said out of the 219 impounded so far between Oct. 2 and Oct. 3, 204 motorcycles were impounded while 15 commercial tricycle were also impounded for issues bordering on non possession of driver`s licences and no number plates among others. He said the command impounded 154 motorcycles and 12 tricycles on  Wednesday,  making it 166 for the first day while 50 motorcycles and three tricycles were also impounded on Thursday making it 53 for the second day. Kugu said the enforcement has been successful because the command had involved the two unions whose vehicles were impounded, sister security agencies and several other stakeholders. “Traditional and religious leaders were also part of our team. This is part of FRSC contribution to national security. “This enforcement will help us have an improved data base, which will help us arrest criminals using motorcycles and tricycles to perpetuate criminality in the state,” he said. Kugu said some of the benefits of the enforcement include improved revenue generation for the state. He said that it also afforded the corps the opportunity to give direct public enlightenment to defaulters to abide by rules. The commander added that during the enforcement, there was full cooperation from all stakeholders including those whose motorcycles and tricycles were impounded. “Surprisingly, they all cooperated and accepted their faults. What we are doing now is more of a warning so as to give offenders the opportunity to change and do the right thing,” he said. (NAN)