Nigerians have attacked President Muhammadu Buhari’s nephew, Mamman Daura, and his daughter, Fatima, for what they describe as disrespect shown to First Lady Aisha Buhari. Fatima had recorded an incident involving Mrs Buhari speaking angrily as she inquired why she was refused access to an apartment at the presidential villa. President Buhari gave Daura’s family an apartment at the villa but asked them in 2017 to move to another apartment also at the villa to make room for his son, Yusuf, who had an accident. Consequently, Aisha sought to eject Daura’s family on a particular day but was restricted, prompting her outburst. The First Lady told the BBC in a recent interview that Fatima was mocking her as she recorded the video. Aisha has been critical of Daura as one of the supposed members of a cabal who have allegedly hijacked Buhari’s government. Nigerians on Twitter have attacked Mamman Daura, saying his family should show more respect to Aisha. That girl Fatima Mamman Daura is rude af, that interview with BBC shows that girl doesn't have a single atom of respect for the First Lady. Same Mamman Daura who couldn't help Buhari's first wife while he was in prison.Same Mamman Daura who left them to go beg IBB & then instigated her divorce for begging the man who imprisoned Buhari.Same Mamman Daura family against Aisha Buhari.Does Mamman have Buhari's nude? I have read the interview granted by Fatima Mamman Daura and I’m not surprised at her guts.President Buhari gave so much power to Mamman Daura that makes his family disrespect the First Lady.Imagine Aisha Buhari was an Edo girl. Na broken noise she for carry. Rubbish! If Fatima, Mamman Daura's daughter could have the gut to dare Aisha Buhari the First Lady and the securities and Buhari himself cannot do anything, how much more Mamman himself. Stranger Things happening in Asorock.Mamman is truly the power behind the throne of Nigeria. For those asking why Mamman Daura and his family are living in Aso rock, try taking your TV remote to another state and see if it will control your TV from there. Proximity is necessary for a remote to control a device effectively. Fatima Mamman-Daura live in the Villa at the expense of tax payers.What a Zoo……… pic.twitter.com/4BfFOJWvfv Someone that can not manage his home can not be a successful leader.. No wonder we are where we are as a NationCeremonial President @MBuhari dare not talk if and when defacto President Mamman Daura is talkingWe don enter one chance!! pic.twitter.com/FZFfjxBrSV