•Governor Willie Obiano The Anambra State Government has announced that the documentation of victims of Onitsha tanker fire incident will now hold in their shops at Ochanja Central Market, in Onitsha, instead of Ekwueme Square, in Awka. This was contained in a statement by the Deputy Chief Press Secretary, Mr Emeka Ozumba, following its confirmation in a communique issued after a meeting between government officials and executive members of the Ochanja market union on Friday at the Governor’s lodge, Amawbia. The government has however set up a 10 man committee consisting of five members of the state executive council and five members of the Ochanja central market union executives. To this end, the committee will visit the market and interface directly with all persons affected by the inferno to evaluate damages, identify actual victims and advise government with regard to compensations and other necessary actions. The statement partly reads: “The public and all concerned persons are hereby notified that the exercise earlier announced to hold on Monday, October 21 at Ekwueme square, Awka, will NOT HOLD as scheduled. “The committee will announce a date for the visit.” Presenting the communique, secretary of the Ochanja central market traders’ association, Mr Peter Chibuike, said that government’s decision to move the documentation exercise to the market, came after diligent consultations with executives of the market union and other stakeholders. Meanwhile, Governor Willie Obiano has donated a fire engine to Ochanja central market and ordered the creation and repair of access roads in the market. While expressing sadness on the fire incident, he regretted the loss of lives and property. The government also set up a special trust fund to raise money for the affected traders with owner of Chisco Transport, Chief Chidi Anyaegbu, as the chairman. The Fidelity Bank account with the Name; Anambra State Victims Support Account, has its account number as 5030105029. According to the State Commissioner of Information and Public Entertainment, C. Don Adinuba, a lot of people have been seeking from the government how they can assist the victims from the fire outbreak. He expressed government’s gratitude to those people and many others who are moved by the tragedy.