By Pamela Eboh AWKA –  The Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) has condemned reported plan by the Federal Government to build toll gates in the South-East, frowning at the very high number of toll gates allegedly proposed for the region. The group regretted that the South-East, which has the lowest number of five states in the country, is slated to have the highest number of 56 toll gates. According to reports making the rounds in the media, six states of the South-South are penciled to have 21 toll gates, 22 toll gates for the six states of the South-West, 12 toll gates for the seven states of the North-West, 9 toll gates for the six states of the North-East, and 14 toll gates for the six states of the North-Central. MASSOB said Monday in a statement made available to journalists in Awka by its leader, Uchenna Madu: “The South East with only 5 states have more toll gates (56) than the entire 19 states of the Northern region with only 35 toll gates. Igbo states are higher with 21 toll gates. This is in conformity that Igbo land is under siege and properly under exploitation. “South East has more police checkpoints than any other region in Nigeria. South east has the greatest number of dilapidated federal road networks than any other region in Nigeria even the northern region of Nigeria that claim to have the highest population and yet, they will pay the lowest of the federal government toll gate fees. “South East has the smallest land mass and the shortest distances from one point to the other within the zone when compared with other zones. Igbo land also has the worst road network in the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” MASSOB wondered the rational of erecting more toll gates in the South East than other zones saying that toll gates should be done proportionately to reflect the mileages of federal roads in the zones. The group vowed to resist and dismantle all proposed toll gates in the South-East zone if the establishment will disfavour the people, It vowed never to fold its hands and watch outside strangers continue to destroy Igbo land in disguise as a government of Nigeria. The statement added: “Though Biafra seems to be an occupied territory by the Nigeria state, MASSOB and other pro Biafra groups will never allow Fulani invaders from Chad, Niger, Senegal, Sudan and Ethiopia to occupy Biafra land forcefully. “This wickedness of President Muhammadu Buhari against Biafrans and Christians in general must be resisted. That President Buhari clinched the office of the president of Nigeria through dubious electoral manipulated means does not make him an Alpha and Omega. “He can never be omnipotent in Nigeria state. Igbo land and the entire Biafra land can never continue to be an experimental ground for exhibition of wickedness, malice, hatred, genocides, police extra judicial killings, military terrorism, political subjections and unprovoked massacre of innocent and armless citizens.” (News Express) 