A BBC SexForGrades documentary was published on Monday exposing sexual harassment of students by lecturers. The 13-minute was centered on the University of Lagos (UNILAG) and the University of Ghana. Indicted in the video was a senior lecturer in the Faculty of Arts, UNILAG, Dr. Boniface Igbeneghu, and Dr. Paul Kwame of the College of Education, University of Ghana. Qed.ng chronicles five notable things observed in the documentary. Sexual exploitation rampant in Nigerian universities The latest documentary by BBC Africa Eye adds weight to the general belief that sexual exploitation, popularly known as sex for marks, is rampant in Nigerian institutions of learning. Lecturers in public universities have since been in the public eye for such cases. BBC Africa Eye reporter, Kiki Mordi, said her team took the initiative due to the clamour to expose lecturers in the habit of sexually abusing students. It remains to be seen what is behind the mask in private varsities. Lecturer and Pastor In the documentary, Dr Igbeneghu is seen before a pulpit proclaiming salvation to his congregation. The lecturer pastors a Foursquare Gospel Church in Lagos. In his first meeting with a journalist who posed as a 17-year-old admission seeker, Igbeneghu presumably leads her to Christ in prayer. Just like Igbeneghu, Professor Richard Akindele formerly of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, who was last December sentenced to two years in prison for demanding sexual benefit to pass a student, also claimed to be a pastor. Cold Room Perhaps one of the biggest revelations in the documentary will be the ‘cold room’. The UNILAG lecturer revealed that there is a location inside the UNILAG Staff Club known as ‘cold room’ where lecturers take female students for sexual pleasures. BBC Africa Eye said that UNILAG authorities dissociated itself from the lecturer’s actions, but refused to comment on the alleged ‘cold room.’ Senior lecturer Cases of sexual harassment in Nigerian varsities have shown that senior lecturers are usually the culprits. The case of Igbeneghu, a former sub-dean; and Prof. Akindele add credence to the narrative. Dr Olabode Ajoniyi, formerly of Osun State University, Osogbo, who was caught on camera having sex in a hotel room with one of his female students, was also a senior lecturer. Kiki Mordi Kiki Mordi, BBC reporter behind the SexForGrades documentary, has proven to be the real deal. Since the launch of Africa Eye as BBC’s new investigative unit in the continent, Mordi has won the hearts of Nigerians with captivating investigations. The unit’s groundbreaking documentary, Sweet Sweet Codeine, published in 2018, received a 2019 Emmys nomination for news and current affairs category. Qed