By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) –  President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday called for joint efforts to rid our water-ways, particularly the gulf of Guinea, of the piracy scourge and other water related crimes. He
made the call during his address at the Global Maritime Security Conference,
with the theme: “Enhancing Maritime Security in The Gulf Of Guinea” held at the
International Conference Centre Abuja. According
to Buhari,”With the world’s waters accounting for over 80% of transportation
requirements in the global trading supply chain network across established
international routes and trade lanes, the threats of piracy and armed robbery
at sea are issues of global concern. The
President who noted that the Gulf of Guinea encompasses divers geographical,
geological and rich cultural heritage with many of its states endowed with vast
oil and gas deposits critical in addressing global energy demands, therefore
called for joint effort because security in the Gulf of Guinea is vital and
central to global trade in view of the fact that many critical trade routes
connecting the rest of the world, run through the Gulf. He
informed that Nigeria on her part has put in place a Suppression of Piracy and
Other Maritime Offences Act, which he signed into law on the 24th of
June, 2019. The Act, in essence, seeks to give further credence to the relevant
international treaties of the United Nations and International Maritime
Organisation ratified by Nigeria and the continental and regional treaties
subscribed to on maritime safety and security. The law would provide the much
needed legal and institutional framework for Nigeria to ensure safe and secure
shipping in Nigerian waters, he added. Furthermore,
as a government in Nigeria, we have put out in place an Integrated National
Surveillance and Waterways Protection Solution with Command and Control
Infrastructure and the deliverables from the project have bolstered Nigeria’s
maritime security architecture and increased monitoring and compliance
enforcement within the Nigerian waters and the Exclusive Economic Zone, Buhari
said. Adding
that the Nigerian Navy has also steeped up collaborative effort with other
maritime security agencies aimed at achieving a safe secure maritime domain. Buhari
who commended the Federal Ministry of Transport, Nigerian Maritime
Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) and the Nigerian Navy for their
leading role in planning the conference on behalf of Nigeria, also informed
that work is ongoing on the Maritime Transport Plan, and Strategy, which when
completed, will provide a robust enabling framework for achieving Nigerian
Maritime objective. Earlier
in his remarks, the Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ekwe Ibas said
that the conference has provided another opportunity to harness collaborative
initiatives towards curbing the maritime security challenges in the region with
greater urgency. He
also informed that the Nigerian Navy has sustained the operational concept of
Maritime Trinity of Action comprising surveillance capabilities, response
initiatives and law enforcement to combat maritime crimes. The
Global Maritime Conference which is the first ever global maritime security
conference will end on Wednesday. The
Dignitaries who attended the conference are :Director General/CEO NIMASA,
ECOWAS President, Executive Secretary,  GOC
Commission, AU Commissiion Chairperson, Secretary General, IMO, Chief of Naval
Staff of Nigeria and his counterparts from other countries. Others are; Minister
of Transport, Rt Hon Chibuike Amaechi, Hon Minister of Defence, Maj Gen Bashir
Salimi Magashi and other panelists.