Wife of the President Dr. Aisha Buhari on Wednesday apologized to her children and family members and all well-meaning Nigerians over the embarrassment that the leaked videos had caused.
She commented on the videos circulating on social networks while receiving First Ladies from states on solidarity visit to the Presidential Villa. In one of the videos, she was seen in angry mood with the Mamman Daura family over their alleged refusal to pack out of Glass house in the villa. She also expressed her resolve during the meeting to construct a regional secretariat for the African First Ladies Peace Mission (AFLPM). The Mission, which was established after the Beijing Conference of 1995, has been in the custody of Nigeria with leadership rotating among African First Ladies. In a statement by her Director of Information, Suleiman Haruna, she said: “I have successfully secured 2.7 hectares of land in Abuja for this purpose and the foundation laying will soon be conducted in the presence of African First Ladies.” On the advocacy project for the improvement of maternal and child health, which is supported by Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and implemented by Future Assured Programme in partnership with the states First Ladies, Mrs. Buhari said it will come to an end in December 2019. She used the opportunity to commend the first ladies for the good work they have been doing in their various states, and the successful collaboration they did with Future Assured. She called on the new First Ladies to do the same, urging them not to succumb to distractions by social media. She expressed appreciation to the President for approving a new set of aides to assist her in carrying out her various responsibilities. First Lady of Borno State, Mrs. Falmata Umara Zulum representing Northern First Ladies Forum and Mrs. Betsy Obaseki, representing Southern First Ladies Forum, spoke during the occasion. Mrs. Zulum said they were at the Villa to welcome her back after a long absence and expressed their unalloyed loyalty and support to her initiatives, especially through the Future Assured Programme, which she said has made her a role model even to other African women. Mrs. Obaseki, on her part, said they received news of the First Lady’s return with great excitement, praying God to continue to protect her. She used the opportunity to thank the President for approving additional special assistants for her, saying this is an indication of the regard he has for her work. Wife of the Vice President, Mrs. Dolapo Osinbajo; wife of the Senate President Mrs. Maryam Ahmed Lawan and wife of the Speaker Mrs. Salamatu Gbajabiamila as well as wives of legislators attended the event. The Nation